pickletools — Tools for pickle developers   Python 3.14.5 documentation
Navigation
index
modules  |
next  |
previous  |
Python
3.14.5 Documentation
The Python Standard Library
Python Language Services
pickletools   — Tools for pickle developers
Theme
Auto
Light
Dark
pickletools   — Tools for pickle developers ¶
Source code:   Lib/pickletools.py
This module contains various constants relating to the intimate details of the
pickle    module, some lengthy comments about the implementation, and a
few useful functions for analyzing pickled data.  The contents of this module
are useful for Python core developers who are working on the   pickle  ;
ordinary users of the   pickle   module probably won’t find the
pickletools   module relevant.
Command-line usage ¶
Added in version 3.2.
When invoked from the command line,   python   -m   pickletools   will
disassemble the contents of one or more pickle files.  Note that if
you want to see the Python object stored in the pickle rather than the
details of pickle format, you may want to use   -m   pickle   instead.
However, when the pickle file that you want to examine comes from an
untrusted source,   -m   pickletools   is a safer option because it does
not execute pickle bytecode.
For example, with a tuple   (1,   2)   pickled in file   x.pickle  :
$  python   -m   pickle   x.pickle
(1, 2)
$  python   -m   pickletools   x.pickle
0: \x80 PROTO      3
2: K    BININT1    1
4: K    BININT1    2
6: \x86 TUPLE2
7: q    BINPUT     0
9: .    STOP
highest protocol among opcodes = 2
Command-line options ¶
-a      ,     --annotate     ¶
Annotate each line with a short opcode description.
-o      ,     --output    = file    ¶
Name of a file where the output should be written.
-l      ,     --indentlevel    = num    ¶
The number of blanks by which to indent a new MARK level.
-m      ,     --memo     ¶
When multiple objects are disassembled, preserve memo between
disassemblies.
-p      ,     --preamble    = preamble    ¶
When more than one pickle file is specified, print given preamble
before each disassembly.
pickle_file     ¶
A pickle file to read, or   -   to indicate reading from standard input.
Programmatic interface ¶
pickletools.    dis   (    pickle   ,    out    =    None   ,    memo    =    None   ,    indentlevel    =    4   ,    annotate    =    0    )  ¶
Outputs a symbolic disassembly of the pickle to the file-like
object  out , defaulting to   sys.stdout  .   pickle  can be a
string or a file-like object.   memo  can be a Python dictionary
that will be used as the pickle’s memo; it can be used to perform
disassemblies across multiple pickles created by the same
pickler. Successive levels, indicated by   MARK   opcodes in the
stream, are indented by  indentlevel  spaces.  If a nonzero value
is given to  annotate , each opcode in the output is annotated with
a short description.  The value of  annotate  is used as a hint for
the column where annotation should start.
Changed in version 3.2:  Added the  annotate  parameter.
pickletools.    genops   (    pickle    )  ¶
Provides an   iterator   over all of the opcodes in a pickle, returning a
sequence of   (opcode,   arg,   pos)   triples.   opcode  is an instance of an
OpcodeInfo   class;  arg  is the decoded value, as a Python object, of
the opcode’s argument;  pos  is the position at which this opcode is located.
pickle  can be a string or a file-like object.
pickletools.    optimize   (    picklestring    )  ¶
Returns a new equivalent pickle string after eliminating unused   PUT
opcodes. The optimized pickle is shorter, takes less transmission time,
requires less storage space, and unpickles more efficiently.
Table of Contents
pickletools   — Tools for pickle developers
Command-line usage
Command-line options
Programmatic interface
Previous topic
dis   — Disassembler for Python bytecode
Next topic
MS Windows Specific Services
This page
Report a bug
Improve this page
Show source
Navigation
index
modules  |
next  |
previous  |
Python
3.14.5 Documentation
The Python Standard Library
Python Language Services
pickletools   — Tools for pickle developers
Theme
Auto
Light
Dark
Copyright  2001 Python Software Foundation.
This page is licensed under the Python Software Foundation License Version 2.
Examples, recipes, and other code in the documentation are additionally licensed under the Zero Clause BSD License.
See  History and License  for more information.
The Python Software Foundation is a non-profit corporation.
Please donate.
Last updated on May 26, 2026 (08:15 UTC).
Found a bug ?
Created using  Sphinx  8.2.3.