os — Miscellaneous operating system interfaces   Python 3.14.5 documentation
Navigation
index
modules  |
next  |
previous  |
Python
3.14.5 Documentation
The Python Standard Library
Generic Operating System Services
os   — Miscellaneous operating system interfaces
Theme
Auto
Light
Dark
os   — Miscellaneous operating system interfaces ¶
Source code:   Lib/os.py
This module provides a portable way of using operating system dependent
functionality.  If you just want to read or write a file see    open()   , if
you want to manipulate paths, see the    os.path    module, and if you want to
read all the lines in all the files on the command line see the    fileinput
module.  For creating temporary files and directories see the    tempfile
module, and for high-level file and directory handling see the    shutil
module.
Notes on the availability of these functions:
The design of all built-in operating system dependent modules of Python is
such that as long as the same functionality is available, it uses the same
interface; for example, the function   os.stat(path)   returns stat
information about  path  in the same format (which happens to have originated
with the POSIX interface).
Extensions peculiar to a particular operating system are also available
through the   os   module, but using them is of course a threat to
portability.
All functions accepting path or file names accept both bytes and string
objects, and result in an object of the same type, if a path or file name is
returned.
On VxWorks, os.popen, os.fork, os.execv and os.spawn*p* are not supported.
On WebAssembly platforms, Android and iOS, large parts of the   os   module are
not available or behave differently. APIs related to processes (e.g.
fork()   ,    execve()   ) and resources (e.g.    nice()   )
are not available. Others like    getuid()    and    getpid()    are
emulated or stubs. WebAssembly platforms also lack support for signals (e.g.
kill()   ,    wait()   ).
Note
All functions in this module raise    OSError    (or subclasses thereof) in
the case of invalid or inaccessible file names and paths, or other arguments
that have the correct type, but are not accepted by the operating system.
exception        os.    error   ¶
An alias for the built-in    OSError    exception.
os.    name   ¶
The name of the operating system dependent module imported.  The following
names have currently been registered:   'posix'  ,   'nt'  ,
'java'  .
See also
sys.platform    has a finer granularity.     os.uname()    gives
system-dependent version information.
The    platform    module provides detailed checks for the
system’s identity.
File Names, Command Line Arguments, and Environment Variables ¶
In Python, file names, command line arguments, and environment variables are
represented using the string type. On some systems, decoding these strings to
and from bytes is necessary before passing them to the operating system. Python
uses the   filesystem encoding and error handler   to perform this
conversion (see    sys.getfilesystemencoding()   ).
The   filesystem encoding and error handler   are configured at Python
startup by the    PyConfig_Read()    function: see
filesystem_encoding    and
filesystem_errors    members of    PyConfig   .
Changed in version 3.1:  On some systems, conversion using the file system encoding may fail. In this
case, Python uses the   surrogateescape encoding error handler  , which means that undecodable bytes are replaced by a
Unicode character U+DC xx  on decoding, and these are again
translated to the original byte on encoding.
The   file system encoding   must
guarantee to successfully decode all bytes below 128. If the file system
encoding fails to provide this guarantee, API functions can raise
UnicodeError   .
See also the   locale encoding  .
Python UTF-8 Mode ¶
Added in version 3.7:  See     PEP 540   for more details.
The Python UTF-8 Mode ignores the   locale encoding   and forces the usage
of the UTF-8 encoding:
Use UTF-8 as the   filesystem encoding  .
sys.getfilesystemencoding()    returns   'utf-8'  .
locale.getpreferredencoding()    returns   'utf-8'   (the  do_setlocale
argument has no effect).
sys.stdin   ,    sys.stdout   , and    sys.stderr    all use
UTF-8 as their text encoding, with the   surrogateescape
error handler   being enabled for   sys.stdin
and   sys.stdout   (  sys.stderr   continues to use
backslashreplace   as it does in the default locale-aware mode)
On Unix,    os.device_encoding()    returns   'utf-8'   rather than the
device encoding.
Note that the standard stream settings in UTF-8 mode can be overridden by
PYTHONIOENCODING    (just as they can be in the default locale-aware
mode).
As a consequence of the changes in those lower level APIs, other higher
level APIs also exhibit different default behaviours:
Command line arguments, environment variables and filenames are decoded
to text using the UTF-8 encoding.
os.fsdecode()    and    os.fsencode()    use the UTF-8 encoding.
open()   ,    io.open()   , and    codecs.open()    use the UTF-8
encoding by default. However, they still use the strict error handler by
default so that attempting to open a binary file in text mode is likely
to raise an exception rather than producing nonsense data.
The   Python UTF-8 Mode   is enabled if the LC_CTYPE locale is
C   or   POSIX   at Python startup (see the    PyConfig_Read()
function).
It can be enabled or disabled using the    -X   utf8    command line
option and the      PYTHONUTF8    environment variable.
If the      PYTHONUTF8    environment variable is not set at all, then the
interpreter defaults to using the current locale settings,  unless  the current
locale is identified as a legacy ASCII-based locale (as described for
PYTHONCOERCECLOCALE   ), and locale coercion is either disabled or
fails. In such legacy locales, the interpreter will default to enabling UTF-8
mode unless explicitly instructed not to do so.
The Python UTF-8 Mode can only be enabled at the Python startup. Its value
can be read from    sys.flags.utf8_mode   .
See also the   UTF-8 mode on Windows
and the   filesystem encoding and error handler  .
See also
PEP 686     Python 3.15 will make   Python UTF-8 Mode   default.
Process Parameters ¶
These functions and data items provide information and operate on the current
process and user.
os.    ctermid   (  )  ¶
Return the filename corresponding to the controlling terminal of the process.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
os.    environ   ¶
A   mapping   object where keys and values are strings that represent
the process environment.  For example,   environ['HOME']   is the pathname
of your home directory (on some platforms), and is equivalent to
getenv( HOME )   in C.
This mapping is captured the first time the   os   module is imported,
typically during Python startup as part of processing   site.py  .  Changes
to the environment made after this time are not reflected in    os.environ   ,
except for changes made by modifying   os.environ   directly.
This mapping may be used to modify the environment as well as query the
environment.     putenv()    will be called automatically when the mapping
is modified.
On Unix, keys and values use    sys.getfilesystemencoding()    and
'surrogateescape'   error handler. Use    environb    if you would like
to use a different encoding.
On Windows, the keys are converted to uppercase. This also applies when
getting, setting, or deleting an item. For example,
environ['monty']   =   'python'   maps the key   'MONTY'   to the value
'python'  .
Note
Calling    putenv()    directly does not change    os.environ   , so it’s better
to modify   os.environ  .
Note
On some platforms, including FreeBSD and macOS, setting   environ   may
cause memory leaks.  Refer to the system documentation for
putenv()  .
You can delete items in this mapping to unset environment variables.
unsetenv()    will be called automatically when an item is deleted from
os.environ   , and when one of the   pop()   or   clear()   methods is
called.
See also
The    os.reload_environ()    function.
Changed in version 3.9:  Updated to support     PEP 584  ’s merge (  |  ) and update (  |=  ) operators.
os.    environb   ¶
Bytes version of    environ   : a   mapping   object where both keys
and values are    bytes    objects representing the process environment.
environ   and   environb   are synchronized (modifying
environb   updates   environ  , and vice versa).
environb   is only available if    supports_bytes_environ    is
True  .
Added in version 3.2.
Changed in version 3.9:  Updated to support     PEP 584  ’s merge (  |  ) and update (  |=  ) operators.
os.    reload_environ   (  )  ¶
The    os.environ    and    os.environb    mappings are a cache of
environment variables at the time that Python started.
As such, changes to the current process environment are not reflected
if made outside Python, or by    os.putenv()    or    os.unsetenv()   .
Use   os.reload_environ()   to update   os.environ   and   os.environb
with any such changes to the current process environment.
Warning
This function is not thread-safe. Calling it while the environment is
being modified in another thread is an undefined behavior. Reading from
os.environ    or    os.environb   , or calling    os.getenv()
while reloading, may return an empty result.
Added in version 3.14.
os.    chdir   (    path    )
os.    fchdir   (    fd    )
os.    getcwd   (  )
These functions are described in   Files and Directories  .
os.    fsencode   (    filename    )  ¶
Encode   path-like    filename  to the
filesystem encoding and error handler  ; return    bytes
unchanged.
fsdecode()    is the reverse function.
Added in version 3.2.
Changed in version 3.6:  Support added to accept objects implementing the    os.PathLike
interface.
os.    fsdecode   (    filename    )  ¶
Decode the   path-like    filename  from the
filesystem encoding and error handler  ; return    str
unchanged.
fsencode()    is the reverse function.
Added in version 3.2.
Changed in version 3.6:  Support added to accept objects implementing the    os.PathLike
interface.
os.    fspath   (    path    )  ¶
Return the file system representation of the path.
If    str    or    bytes    is passed in, it is returned unchanged.
Otherwise    __fspath__()    is called and its value is
returned as long as it is a   str   or   bytes   object.
In all other cases,    TypeError    is raised.
Added in version 3.6.
class        os.    PathLike   ¶
An   abstract base class   for objects representing a file system path,
e.g.    pathlib.PurePath   .
Added in version 3.6.
abstractmethod        __fspath__   (  )  ¶
Return the file system path representation of the object.
The method should only return a    str    or    bytes    object,
with the preference being for   str  .
os.    getenv   (    key   ,    default    =    None    )  ¶
Return the value of the environment variable  key  as a string if it exists, or
default  if it doesn’t.  key  is a string. Note that
since   getenv()   uses    os.environ   , the mapping of   getenv()   is
similarly also captured on import, and the function may not reflect
future environment changes.
On Unix, keys and values are decoded with    sys.getfilesystemencoding()
and   'surrogateescape'   error handler. Use    os.getenvb()    if you
would like to use a different encoding.
Availability  : Unix, Windows.
os.    getenvb   (    key   ,    default    =    None    )  ¶
Return the value of the environment variable  key  as bytes if it exists, or
default  if it doesn’t.  key  must be bytes. Note that
since   getenvb()   uses    os.environb   , the mapping of   getenvb()   is
similarly also captured on import, and the function may not reflect
future environment changes.
getenvb()   is only available if    supports_bytes_environ
is   True  .
Availability  : Unix.
Added in version 3.2.
os.    get_exec_path   (    env    =    None    )  ¶
Returns the list of directories that will be searched for a named
executable, similar to a shell, when launching a process.
env , when specified, should be an environment variable dictionary
to lookup the PATH in.
By default, when  env  is   None  ,    environ    is used.
Added in version 3.2.
os.    getegid   (  )  ¶
Return the effective group id of the current process.  This corresponds to the
“set id” bit on the file being executed in the current process.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
os.    geteuid   (  )  ¶
Return the current process’s effective user id.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
os.    getgid   (  )  ¶
Return the real group id of the current process.
Availability  : Unix.
The function is a stub on WASI, see   WebAssembly platforms   for more
information.
os.    getgrouplist   (    user   ,    group   ,     /     )  ¶
Return list of group ids that  user  belongs to. If  group  is not in the
list, it is included; typically,  group  is specified as the group ID
field from the password record for  user , because that group ID will
otherwise be potentially omitted.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
Added in version 3.3.
os.    getgroups   (  )  ¶
Return list of supplemental group ids associated with the current process.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
Note
On macOS,   getgroups()   behavior differs somewhat from
other Unix platforms. If the Python interpreter was built with a
deployment target of   10.5   or earlier,   getgroups()   returns
the list of effective group ids associated with the current user process;
this list is limited to a system-defined number of entries, typically 16,
and may be modified by calls to    setgroups()    if suitably privileged.
If built with a deployment target greater than   10.5  ,
getgroups()   returns the current group access list for the user
associated with the effective user id of the process; the group access
list may change over the lifetime of the process, it is not affected by
calls to   setgroups()  , and its length is not limited to 16.  The
deployment target value,   MACOSX_DEPLOYMENT_TARGET  , can be
obtained with    sysconfig.get_config_var()   .
os.    getlogin   (  )  ¶
Return the name of the user logged in on the controlling terminal of the
process.  For most purposes, it is more useful to use
getpass.getuser()    since the latter checks the environment variables
LOGNAME   or     USERNAME   to find out who the user is, and
falls back to   pwd.getpwuid(os.getuid())[0]   to get the login name of the
current real user id.
Availability  : Unix, Windows, not WASI.
os.    getpgid   (    pid    )  ¶
Return the process group id of the process with process id  pid . If  pid  is 0,
the process group id of the current process is returned.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
os.    getpgrp   (  )  ¶
Return the id of the current process group.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
os.    getpid   (  )  ¶
Return the current process id.
The function is a stub on WASI, see   WebAssembly platforms   for more
information.
os.    getppid   (  )  ¶
Return the parent’s process id.  When the parent process has exited, on Unix
the id returned is the one of the init process (1), on Windows it is still
the same id, which may be already reused by another process.
Availability  : Unix, Windows, not WASI.
Changed in version 3.2:  Added support for Windows.
os.    getpriority   (    which   ,    who    )  ¶
Get program scheduling priority.  The value  which  is one of
PRIO_PROCESS   ,    PRIO_PGRP   , or    PRIO_USER   , and  who
is interpreted relative to  which  (a process identifier for
PRIO_PROCESS  , process group identifier for   PRIO_PGRP  , and a
user ID for   PRIO_USER  ).  A zero value for  who  denotes
(respectively) the calling process, the process group of the calling process,
or the real user ID of the calling process.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
Added in version 3.3.
os.    PRIO_PROCESS   ¶
os.    PRIO_PGRP   ¶
os.    PRIO_USER   ¶
Parameters for the    getpriority()    and    setpriority()    functions.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
Added in version 3.3.
os.    PRIO_DARWIN_THREAD   ¶
os.    PRIO_DARWIN_PROCESS   ¶
os.    PRIO_DARWIN_BG   ¶
os.    PRIO_DARWIN_NONUI   ¶
Parameters for the    getpriority()    and    setpriority()    functions.
Availability  : macOS
Added in version 3.12.
os.    getresuid   (  )  ¶
Return a tuple (ruid, euid, suid) denoting the current process’s
real, effective, and saved user ids.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
Added in version 3.2.
os.    getresgid   (  )  ¶
Return a tuple (rgid, egid, sgid) denoting the current process’s
real, effective, and saved group ids.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
Added in version 3.2.
os.    getuid   (  )  ¶
Return the current process’s real user id.
Availability  : Unix.
The function is a stub on WASI, see   WebAssembly platforms   for more
information.
os.    initgroups   (    username   ,    gid   ,     /     )  ¶
Call the system   initgroups()   to initialize the group access list with all of
the groups of which the specified username is a member, plus the specified
group id.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI, not Android.
Added in version 3.2.
os.    putenv   (    key   ,    value   ,     /     )  ¶
Set the environment variable named  key  to the string  value .  Such
changes to the environment affect subprocesses started with    os.system()   ,
popen()    or    fork()    and    execv()   .
Assignments to items in    os.environ    are automatically translated into
corresponding calls to   putenv()  ; however, calls to   putenv()
don’t update   os.environ  , so it is actually preferable to assign to items
of   os.environ  . This also applies to    getenv()    and    getenvb()   , which
respectively use   os.environ   and    os.environb    in their implementations.
See also the    os.reload_environ()    function.
Note
On some platforms, including FreeBSD and macOS, setting   environ   may
cause memory leaks. Refer to the system documentation for   putenv()  .
Raises an   auditing event     os.putenv   with arguments   key  ,   value  .
Changed in version 3.9:  The function is now always available.
os.    setegid   (    egid   ,     /     )  ¶
Set the current process’s effective group id.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI, not Android.
os.    seteuid   (    euid   ,     /     )  ¶
Set the current process’s effective user id.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI, not Android.
os.    setgid   (    gid   ,     /     )  ¶
Set the current process’ group id.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI, not Android.
os.    setgroups   (    groups   ,     /     )  ¶
Set the list of supplemental group ids associated with the current process to
groups .  groups  must be a sequence, and each element must be an integer
identifying a group. This operation is typically available only to the superuser.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
Note
On macOS, the length of  groups  may not exceed the
system-defined maximum number of effective group ids, typically 16.
See the documentation for    getgroups()    for cases where it may not
return the same group list set by calling setgroups().
os.    setns   (    fd   ,    nstype    =    0    )  ¶
Reassociate the current thread with a Linux namespace.
See the   setns(2)   and   namespaces(7)   man pages for more
details.
If  fd  refers to a   /proc/   pid   /ns/   link,   setns()   reassociates the
calling thread with the namespace associated with that link,
and  nstype  may be set to one of the
CLONE_NEW* constants
to impose constraints on the operation
(  0   means no constraints).
Since Linux 5.8,  fd  may refer to a PID file descriptor obtained from
pidfd_open()   . In this case,   setns()   reassociates the calling thread
into one or more of the same namespaces as the thread referred to by  fd .
This is subject to any constraints imposed by  nstype ,
which is a bit mask combining one or more of the
CLONE_NEW* constants  ,
e.g.   setns(fd,   os.CLONE_NEWUTS   |   os.CLONE_NEWPID)  .
The caller’s memberships in unspecified namespaces are left unchanged.
fd  can be any object with a    fileno()    method, or a raw file descriptor.
This example reassociates the thread with the   init   process’s network namespace:
fd   =   os  .  open  (   /proc/1/ns/net   ,   os  .  O_RDONLY  )
os  .  setns  (  fd  ,   os  .  CLONE_NEWNET  )
os  .  close  (  fd  )
Availability  : Linux  = 3.0 with glibc  = 2.14.
Added in version 3.12.
See also
The    unshare()    function.
os.    setpgrp   (  )  ¶
Call the system call   setpgrp()   or   setpgrp(0,   0)   depending on
which version is implemented (if any).  See the Unix manual for the semantics.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
os.    setpgid   (    pid   ,    pgrp   ,     /     )  ¶
Call the system call   setpgid()   to set the process group id of the
process with id  pid  to the process group with id  pgrp .  See the Unix manual
for the semantics.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
os.    setpriority   (    which   ,    who   ,    priority    )  ¶
Set program scheduling priority. The value  which  is one of
PRIO_PROCESS   ,    PRIO_PGRP   , or    PRIO_USER   , and  who
is interpreted relative to  which  (a process identifier for
PRIO_PROCESS  , process group identifier for   PRIO_PGRP  , and a
user ID for   PRIO_USER  ). A zero value for  who  denotes
(respectively) the calling process, the process group of the calling process,
or the real user ID of the calling process.
priority  is a value in the range -20 to 19. The default priority is 0;
lower priorities cause more favorable scheduling.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
Added in version 3.3.
os.    setregid   (    rgid   ,    egid   ,     /     )  ¶
Set the current process’s real and effective group ids.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI, not Android.
os.    setresgid   (    rgid   ,    egid   ,    sgid   ,     /     )  ¶
Set the current process’s real, effective, and saved group ids.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI, not Android.
Added in version 3.2.
os.    setresuid   (    ruid   ,    euid   ,    suid   ,     /     )  ¶
Set the current process’s real, effective, and saved user ids.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI, not Android.
Added in version 3.2.
os.    setreuid   (    ruid   ,    euid   ,     /     )  ¶
Set the current process’s real and effective user ids.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI, not Android.
os.    getsid   (    pid   ,     /     )  ¶
Call the system call   getsid()  .  See the Unix manual for the semantics.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
os.    setsid   (  )  ¶
Call the system call   setsid()  .  See the Unix manual for the semantics.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
os.    setuid   (    uid   ,     /     )  ¶
Set the current process’s user id.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI, not Android.
os.    strerror   (    code   ,     /     )  ¶
Return the error message corresponding to the error code in  code .
On platforms where   strerror()   returns   NULL   when given an unknown
error number,    ValueError    is raised.
os.    supports_bytes_environ   ¶
True   if the native OS type of the environment is bytes (eg.   False   on
Windows).
Added in version 3.2.
os.    umask   (    mask   ,     /     )  ¶
Set the current numeric umask and return the previous umask.
The function is a stub on WASI, see   WebAssembly platforms   for more
information.
os.    uname   (  )  ¶
Returns information identifying the current operating system.
The return value is an object with five attributes:
sysname   - operating system name
nodename   - name of machine on network (implementation-defined)
release   - operating system release
version   - operating system version
machine   - hardware identifier
For backwards compatibility, this object is also iterable, behaving
like a five-tuple containing   sysname  ,   nodename  ,
release  ,   version  , and   machine
in that order.
Some systems truncate   nodename   to 8 characters or to the
leading component; a better way to get the hostname is
socket.gethostname()     or even
socket.gethostbyaddr(socket.gethostname())  .
On macOS, iOS and Android, this returns the  kernel  name and version (i.e.,
'Darwin'   on macOS and iOS;   'Linux'   on Android).    platform.uname()
can be used to get the user-facing operating system name and version on iOS and
Android.
Availability  : Unix.
Changed in version 3.3:  Return type changed from a tuple to a tuple-like object
with named attributes.
os.    unsetenv   (    key   ,     /     )  ¶
Unset (delete) the environment variable named  key . Such changes to the
environment affect subprocesses started with    os.system()   ,    popen()    or
fork()    and    execv()   .
Deletion of items in    os.environ    is automatically translated into a
corresponding call to   unsetenv()  ; however, calls to   unsetenv()
don’t update   os.environ  , so it is actually preferable to delete items of
os.environ  .
See also the    os.reload_environ()    function.
Raises an   auditing event     os.unsetenv   with argument   key  .
Changed in version 3.9:  The function is now always available and is also available on Windows.
os.    unshare   (    flags    )  ¶
Disassociate parts of the process execution context, and move them into a
newly created namespace.
See the   unshare(2)
man page for more details.
The  flags  argument is a bit mask, combining zero or more of the
CLONE_* constants  ,
that specifies which parts of the execution context should be
unshared from their existing associations and moved to a new namespace.
If the  flags  argument is   0  , no changes are made to the calling process’s
execution context.
Availability  : Linux  = 2.6.16.
Added in version 3.12.
See also
The    setns()    function.
Flags to the    unshare()    function, if the implementation supports them.
See   unshare(2)   in the Linux manual
for their exact effect and availability.
os.    CLONE_FILES   ¶
os.    CLONE_FS   ¶
os.    CLONE_NEWCGROUP   ¶
os.    CLONE_NEWIPC   ¶
os.    CLONE_NEWNET   ¶
os.    CLONE_NEWNS   ¶
os.    CLONE_NEWPID   ¶
os.    CLONE_NEWTIME   ¶
os.    CLONE_NEWUSER   ¶
os.    CLONE_NEWUTS   ¶
os.    CLONE_SIGHAND   ¶
os.    CLONE_SYSVSEM   ¶
os.    CLONE_THREAD   ¶
os.    CLONE_VM   ¶
File Object Creation ¶
These functions create new   file objects  .  (See also
open()    for opening file descriptors.)
os.    fdopen   (    fd   ,    *    args   ,    **    kwargs    )  ¶
Return an open file object connected to the file descriptor  fd .  This is an
alias of the    open()    built-in function and accepts the same arguments.
The only difference is that the first argument of   fdopen()   must always
be an integer.
File Descriptor Operations ¶
These functions operate on I/O streams referenced using file descriptors.
File descriptors are small integers corresponding to a file that has been opened
by the current process.  For example, standard input is usually file descriptor
0, standard output is 1, and standard error is 2.  Further files opened by a
process will then be assigned 3, 4, 5, and so forth.  The name “file descriptor”
is slightly deceptive; on Unix platforms, sockets and pipes are also referenced
by file descriptors.
The    fileno()    method can be used to obtain the file descriptor
associated with a   file object   when required.  Note that using the file
descriptor directly will bypass the file object methods, ignoring aspects such
as internal buffering of data.
os.    close   (    fd    )  ¶
Close file descriptor  fd .
Note
This function is intended for low-level I/O and must be applied to a file
descriptor as returned by    os.open()    or    pipe()   .  To close a “file
object” returned by the built-in function    open()    or by    popen()    or
fdopen()   , use its    close()    method.
os.    closerange   (    fd_low   ,    fd_high   ,     /     )  ¶
Close all file descriptors from  fd_low  (inclusive) to  fd_high  (exclusive),
ignoring errors. Equivalent to (but much faster than):
for   fd   in   range  (  fd_low  ,   fd_high  ):
try  :
os  .  close  (  fd  )
except   OSError  :
pass
os.    copy_file_range   (    src   ,    dst   ,    count   ,    offset_src    =    None   ,    offset_dst    =    None    )  ¶
Copy  count  bytes from file descriptor  src , starting from offset
offset_src , to file descriptor  dst , starting from offset  offset_dst .
If  offset_src  is   None  , then  src  is read from the current position;
respectively for  offset_dst .
In Linux kernel older than 5.3, the files pointed to by  src  and  dst
must reside in the same filesystem, otherwise an    OSError    is
raised with    errno    set to    errno.EXDEV   .
This copy is done without the additional cost of transferring data
from the kernel to user space and then back into the kernel. Additionally,
some filesystems could implement extra optimizations, such as the use of
reflinks (i.e., two or more inodes that share pointers to the same
copy-on-write disk blocks; supported file systems include btrfs and XFS)
and server-side copy (in the case of NFS).
The function copies bytes between two file descriptors. Text options, like
the encoding and the line ending, are ignored.
The return value is the amount of bytes copied. This could be less than the
amount requested.
Note
On Linux,    os.copy_file_range()    should not be used for copying a
range of a pseudo file from a special filesystem like procfs and sysfs.
It will always copy no bytes and return 0 as if the file was empty
because of a known Linux kernel issue.
Availability  : Linux  = 4.5 with glibc  = 2.27.
Added in version 3.8.
os.    device_encoding   (    fd    )  ¶
Return a string describing the encoding of the device associated with  fd
if it is connected to a terminal; else return    None   .
On Unix, if the   Python UTF-8 Mode   is enabled, return
'UTF-8'   rather than the device encoding.
Changed in version 3.10:  On Unix, the function now implements the Python UTF-8 Mode.
os.    dup   (    fd   ,     /     )  ¶
Return a duplicate of file descriptor  fd . The new file descriptor is
non-inheritable  .
On Windows, when duplicating a standard stream (0: stdin, 1: stdout,
2: stderr), the new file descriptor is   inheritable  .
Availability  : not WASI.
Changed in version 3.4:  The new file descriptor is now non-inheritable.
os.    dup2   (    fd   ,    fd2   ,    inheritable    =    True    )  ¶
Duplicate file descriptor  fd  to  fd2 , closing the latter first if
necessary. Return  fd2 . The new file descriptor is   inheritable   by default or non-inheritable if  inheritable
is   False  .
Availability  : not WASI.
Changed in version 3.4:  Add the optional  inheritable  parameter.
Changed in version 3.7:  Return  fd2  on success. Previously,   None   was always returned.
os.    fchmod   (    fd   ,    mode    )  ¶
Change the mode of the file given by  fd  to the numeric  mode .  See the
docs for    chmod()    for possible values of  mode .  As of Python 3.3, this
is equivalent to   os.chmod(fd,   mode)  .
Raises an   auditing event     os.chmod   with arguments   path  ,   mode  ,   dir_fd  .
Availability  : Unix, Windows.
The function is limited on WASI, see   WebAssembly platforms   for more
information.
Changed in version 3.13:  Added support on Windows.
os.    fchown   (    fd   ,    uid   ,    gid    )  ¶
Change the owner and group id of the file given by  fd  to the numeric  uid
and  gid .  To leave one of the ids unchanged, set it to -1.  See
chown()   .  As of Python 3.3, this is equivalent to   os.chown(fd,   uid,
gid)  .
Raises an   auditing event     os.chown   with arguments   path  ,   uid  ,   gid  ,   dir_fd  .
Availability  : Unix.
The function is limited on WASI, see   WebAssembly platforms   for more
information.
os.    fdatasync   (    fd    )  ¶
Force write of file with filedescriptor  fd  to disk. Does not force update of
metadata.
Availability  : Unix.
Note
This function is not available on MacOS.
os.    fpathconf   (    fd   ,    name   ,     /     )  ¶
Return system configuration information relevant to an open file.  name
specifies the configuration value to retrieve; it may be a string which is the
name of a defined system value; these names are specified in a number of
standards (POSIX.1, Unix 95, Unix 98, and others).  Some platforms define
additional names as well.  The names known to the host operating system are
given in the   pathconf_names   dictionary.  For configuration variables not
included in that mapping, passing an integer for  name  is also accepted.
If  name  is a string and is not known,    ValueError    is raised.  If a
specific value for  name  is not supported by the host system, even if it is
included in   pathconf_names  , an    OSError    is raised with
errno.EINVAL    for the error number.
As of Python 3.3, this is equivalent to   os.pathconf(fd,   name)  .
Availability  : Unix.
os.    fstat   (    fd    )  ¶
Get the status of the file descriptor  fd . Return a    stat_result
object.
As of Python 3.3, this is equivalent to   os.stat(fd)  .
See also
The    stat()    function.
os.    fstatvfs   (    fd   ,     /     )  ¶
Return information about the filesystem containing the file associated with
file descriptor  fd , like    statvfs()   .  As of Python 3.3, this is
equivalent to   os.statvfs(fd)  .
Availability  : Unix.
os.    fsync   (    fd    )  ¶
Force write of file with filedescriptor  fd  to disk.  On Unix, this calls the
native   fsync()   function; on Windows, the MS   _commit()   function.
If you’re starting with a buffered Python   file object    f , first do
f.flush()  , and then do   os.fsync(f.fileno())  , to ensure that all internal
buffers associated with  f  are written to disk.
Availability  : Unix, Windows.
os.    ftruncate   (    fd   ,    length   ,     /     )  ¶
Truncate the file corresponding to file descriptor  fd , so that it is at
most  length  bytes in size.  As of Python 3.3, this is equivalent to
os.truncate(fd,   length)  .
Raises an   auditing event     os.truncate   with arguments   fd  ,   length  .
Availability  : Unix, Windows.
Changed in version 3.5:  Added support for Windows
os.    get_blocking   (    fd   ,     /     )  ¶
Get the blocking mode of the file descriptor:   False   if the
O_NONBLOCK    flag is set,   True   if the flag is cleared.
See also    set_blocking()    and    socket.socket.setblocking()   .
Availability  : Unix, Windows.
The function is limited on WASI, see   WebAssembly platforms   for more
information.
On Windows, this function is limited to pipes.
Added in version 3.5.
Changed in version 3.12:  Added support for pipes on Windows.
os.    grantpt   (    fd   ,     /     )  ¶
Grant access to the slave pseudo-terminal device associated with the
master pseudo-terminal device to which the file descriptor  fd  refers.
The file descriptor  fd  is not closed upon failure.
Calls the C standard library function   grantpt()  .
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
Added in version 3.13.
os.    isatty   (    fd   ,     /     )  ¶
Return   True   if the file descriptor  fd  is open and connected to a
tty(-like) device, else   False  .
os.    lockf   (    fd   ,    cmd   ,    len   ,     /     )  ¶
Apply, test or remove a POSIX lock on an open file descriptor.
fd  is an open file descriptor.
cmd  specifies the command to use - one of    F_LOCK   ,    F_TLOCK   ,
F_ULOCK    or    F_TEST   .
len  specifies the section of the file to lock.
Raises an   auditing event     os.lockf   with arguments   fd  ,   cmd  ,   len  .
Availability  : Unix.
Added in version 3.3.
os.    F_LOCK   ¶
os.    F_TLOCK   ¶
os.    F_ULOCK   ¶
os.    F_TEST   ¶
Flags that specify what action    lockf()    will take.
Availability  : Unix.
Added in version 3.3.
os.    login_tty   (    fd   ,     /     )  ¶
Prepare the tty of which fd is a file descriptor for a new login session.
Make the calling process a session leader; make the tty the controlling tty,
the stdin, the stdout, and the stderr of the calling process; close fd.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
Added in version 3.11.
os.    lseek   (    fd   ,    pos   ,    whence   ,     /     )  ¶
Set the current position of file descriptor  fd  to position  pos , modified
by  whence , and return the new position in bytes relative to
the start of the file.
Valid values for  whence  are:
SEEK_SET    or   0   – set  pos  relative to the beginning of the file
SEEK_CUR    or   1   – set  pos  relative to the current file position
SEEK_END    or   2   – set  pos  relative to the end of the file
SEEK_HOLE    – set  pos  to the next data location, relative to  pos
SEEK_DATA    – set  pos  to the next data hole, relative to  pos
Changed in version 3.3:  Add support for   SEEK_HOLE   and   SEEK_DATA  .
os.    SEEK_SET   ¶
os.    SEEK_CUR   ¶
os.    SEEK_END   ¶
Parameters to the    lseek()    function and the    seek()
method on   file-like objects  ,
for whence to adjust the file position indicator.
SEEK_SET      Adjust the file position relative to the beginning of the file.
SEEK_CUR      Adjust the file position relative to the current file position.
SEEK_END      Adjust the file position relative to the end of the file.
Their values are 0, 1, and 2, respectively.
os.    SEEK_HOLE   ¶
os.    SEEK_DATA   ¶
Parameters to the    lseek()    function and the    seek()
method on   file-like objects  ,
for seeking file data and holes on sparsely allocated files.
SEEK_DATA     Adjust the file offset to the next location containing data,
relative to the seek position.
SEEK_HOLE     Adjust the file offset to the next location containing a hole,
relative to the seek position.
A hole is defined as a sequence of zeros.
Note
These operations only make sense for filesystems that support them.
Availability  : Linux  = 3.1, macOS, Unix
Added in version 3.3.
os.    open   (    path   ,    flags   ,    mode    =    0o777   ,     *    ,    dir_fd    =    None    )  ¶
Open the file  path  and set various flags according to  flags  and possibly
its mode according to  mode .  When computing  mode , the current umask value
is first masked out.  Return the file descriptor for the newly opened file.
The new file descriptor is   non-inheritable  .
For a description of the flag and mode values, see the C run-time documentation;
flag constants (like    O_RDONLY    and    O_WRONLY   ) are defined in
the   os   module.  In particular, on Windows adding
O_BINARY    is needed to open files in binary mode.
This function can support   paths relative to directory descriptors   with the  dir_fd  parameter.
Raises an   auditing event     open   with arguments   path  ,   mode  ,   flags  .
Changed in version 3.4:  The new file descriptor is now non-inheritable.
Note
This function is intended for low-level I/O.  For normal usage, use the
built-in function   open()  , which returns a   file object   with
read()    and    write()    methods.
To wrap a file descriptor in a file object, use    fdopen()   .
Changed in version 3.3:  Added the  dir_fd  parameter.
Changed in version 3.5:  If the system call is interrupted and the signal handler does not raise an
exception, the function now retries the system call instead of raising an
InterruptedError    exception (see     PEP 475   for the rationale).
Changed in version 3.6:  Accepts a   path-like object  .
The following constants are options for the  flags  parameter to the
open()    function.  They can be combined using the bitwise OR operator
|  .  Some of them are not available on all platforms.  For descriptions of
their availability and use, consult the   open(2)   manual page on Unix
or  the MSDN  on Windows.
os.    O_RDONLY   ¶
os.    O_WRONLY   ¶
os.    O_RDWR   ¶
os.    O_APPEND   ¶
os.    O_CREAT   ¶
os.    O_EXCL   ¶
os.    O_TRUNC   ¶
The above constants are available on Unix and Windows.
os.    O_DSYNC   ¶
os.    O_RSYNC   ¶
os.    O_SYNC   ¶
os.    O_NDELAY   ¶
os.    O_NONBLOCK   ¶
os.    O_NOCTTY   ¶
os.    O_CLOEXEC   ¶
The above constants are only available on Unix.
Changed in version 3.3:  Add   O_CLOEXEC   constant.
os.    O_BINARY   ¶
os.    O_NOINHERIT   ¶
os.    O_SHORT_LIVED   ¶
os.    O_TEMPORARY   ¶
os.    O_RANDOM   ¶
os.    O_SEQUENTIAL   ¶
os.    O_TEXT   ¶
The above constants are only available on Windows.
os.    O_EVTONLY   ¶
os.    O_FSYNC   ¶
os.    O_SYMLINK   ¶
os.    O_NOFOLLOW_ANY   ¶
The above constants are only available on macOS.
Changed in version 3.10:  Add   O_EVTONLY  ,   O_FSYNC  ,   O_SYMLINK
and   O_NOFOLLOW_ANY   constants.
os.    O_ASYNC   ¶
os.    O_DIRECT   ¶
os.    O_DIRECTORY   ¶
os.    O_NOFOLLOW   ¶
os.    O_NOATIME   ¶
os.    O_PATH   ¶
os.    O_TMPFILE   ¶
os.    O_SHLOCK   ¶
os.    O_EXLOCK   ¶
The above constants are extensions and not present if they are not defined by
the C library.
Changed in version 3.4:  Add   O_PATH   on systems that support it.
Add   O_TMPFILE  , only available on Linux Kernel 3.11
or newer.
os.    openpty   (  )  ¶
Open a new pseudo-terminal pair. Return a pair of file descriptors
(master,   slave)   for the pty and the tty, respectively. The new file
descriptors are   non-inheritable  . For a (slightly) more
portable approach, use the    pty    module.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
Changed in version 3.4:  The new file descriptors are now non-inheritable.
os.    pipe   (  )  ¶
Create a pipe.  Return a pair of file descriptors   (r,   w)   usable for
reading and writing, respectively. The new file descriptor is
non-inheritable  .
Availability  : Unix, Windows.
Changed in version 3.4:  The new file descriptors are now non-inheritable.
os.    pipe2   (    flags   ,     /     )  ¶
Create a pipe with  flags  set atomically.
flags  can be constructed by ORing together one or more of these values:
O_NONBLOCK   ,    O_CLOEXEC   .
Return a pair of file descriptors   (r,   w)   usable for reading and writing,
respectively.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
Added in version 3.3.
os.    posix_fallocate   (    fd   ,    offset   ,    len   ,     /     )  ¶
Ensures that enough disk space is allocated for the file specified by  fd
starting from  offset  and continuing for  len  bytes.
Availability  : Unix.
Added in version 3.3.
os.    posix_fadvise   (    fd   ,    offset   ,    len   ,    advice   ,     /     )  ¶
Announces an intention to access data in a specific pattern thus allowing
the kernel to make optimizations.
The advice applies to the region of the file specified by  fd  starting at
offset  and continuing for  len  bytes.
advice  is one of    POSIX_FADV_NORMAL   ,    POSIX_FADV_SEQUENTIAL   ,
POSIX_FADV_RANDOM   ,    POSIX_FADV_NOREUSE   ,
POSIX_FADV_WILLNEED    or    POSIX_FADV_DONTNEED   .
Availability  : Unix.
Added in version 3.3.
os.    POSIX_FADV_NORMAL   ¶
os.    POSIX_FADV_SEQUENTIAL   ¶
os.    POSIX_FADV_RANDOM   ¶
os.    POSIX_FADV_NOREUSE   ¶
os.    POSIX_FADV_WILLNEED   ¶
os.    POSIX_FADV_DONTNEED   ¶
Flags that can be used in  advice  in    posix_fadvise()    that specify
the access pattern that is likely to be used.
Availability  : Unix.
Added in version 3.3.
os.    pread   (    fd   ,    n   ,    offset   ,     /     )  ¶
Read at most  n  bytes from file descriptor  fd  at a position of  offset ,
leaving the file offset unchanged.
Return a bytestring containing the bytes read. If the end of the file
referred to by  fd  has been reached, an empty bytes object is returned.
Availability  : Unix.
Added in version 3.3.
os.    posix_openpt   (    oflag   ,     /     )  ¶
Open and return a file descriptor for a master pseudo-terminal device.
Calls the C standard library function   posix_openpt()  . The  oflag
argument is used to set file status flags and file access modes as
specified in the manual page of   posix_openpt()   of your system.
The returned file descriptor is   non-inheritable  .
If the value    O_CLOEXEC    is available on the system, it is added to
oflag .
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
Added in version 3.13.
os.    preadv   (    fd   ,    buffers   ,    offset   ,    flags    =    0   ,     /     )  ¶
Read from a file descriptor  fd  at a position of  offset  into mutable
bytes-like objects    buffers , leaving the file
offset unchanged.  Transfer data into each buffer until it is full and then
move on to the next buffer in the sequence to hold the rest of the data.
The flags argument contains a bitwise OR of zero or more of the following
flags:
RWF_HIPRI
RWF_NOWAIT
Return the total number of bytes actually read which can be less than the
total capacity of all the objects.
The operating system may set a limit (   sysconf()    value
'SC_IOV_MAX'  ) on the number of buffers that can be used.
Combine the functionality of    os.readv()    and    os.pread()   .
Availability  : Linux  = 2.6.30, FreeBSD  = 6.0, OpenBSD  = 2.7, AIX  = 7.1.
Using flags requires Linux  = 4.6.
Added in version 3.7.
os.    RWF_NOWAIT   ¶
Do not wait for data which is not immediately available. If this flag is
specified, the system call will return instantly if it would have to read
data from the backing storage or wait for a lock.
If some data was successfully read, it will return the number of bytes read.
If no bytes were read, it will return   -1   and set errno to
errno.EAGAIN   .
Availability  : Linux  = 4.14.
Added in version 3.7.
os.    RWF_HIPRI   ¶
High priority read/write. Allows block-based filesystems to use polling
of the device, which provides lower latency, but may use additional
resources.
Currently, on Linux, this feature is usable only on a file descriptor opened
using the    O_DIRECT    flag.
Availability  : Linux  = 4.6.
Added in version 3.7.
os.    ptsname   (    fd   ,     /     )  ¶
Return the name of the slave pseudo-terminal device associated with the
master pseudo-terminal device to which the file descriptor  fd  refers.
The file descriptor  fd  is not closed upon failure.
Calls the reentrant C standard library function   ptsname_r()   if
it is available; otherwise, the C standard library function
ptsname()  , which is not guaranteed to be thread-safe, is called.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
Added in version 3.13.
os.    pwrite   (    fd   ,    str   ,    offset   ,     /     )  ¶
Write the bytestring in  str  to file descriptor  fd  at position of
offset , leaving the file offset unchanged.
Return the number of bytes actually written.
Availability  : Unix.
Added in version 3.3.
os.    pwritev   (    fd   ,    buffers   ,    offset   ,    flags    =    0   ,     /     )  ¶
Write the  buffers  contents to file descriptor  fd  at an offset  offset ,
leaving the file offset unchanged.   buffers  must be a sequence of
bytes-like objects  . Buffers are processed in
array order. Entire contents of the first buffer is written before
proceeding to the second, and so on.
The flags argument contains a bitwise OR of zero or more of the following
flags:
RWF_DSYNC
RWF_SYNC
RWF_APPEND
Return the total number of bytes actually written.
The operating system may set a limit (   sysconf()    value
'SC_IOV_MAX'  ) on the number of buffers that can be used.
Combine the functionality of    os.writev()    and    os.pwrite()   .
Availability  : Linux  = 2.6.30, FreeBSD  = 6.0, OpenBSD  = 2.7, AIX  = 7.1.
Using flags requires Linux  = 4.6.
Added in version 3.7.
os.    RWF_DSYNC   ¶
Provide a per-write equivalent of the    O_DSYNC       os.open()    flag.
This flag effect applies only to the data range written by the system call.
Availability  : Linux  = 4.7.
Added in version 3.7.
os.    RWF_SYNC   ¶
Provide a per-write equivalent of the    O_SYNC       os.open()    flag.
This flag effect applies only to the data range written by the system call.
Availability  : Linux  = 4.7.
Added in version 3.7.
os.    RWF_APPEND   ¶
Provide a per-write equivalent of the    O_APPEND       os.open()
flag. This flag is meaningful only for    os.pwritev()   , and its
effect applies only to the data range written by the system call. The
offset  argument does not affect the write operation; the data is always
appended to the end of the file. However, if the  offset  argument is
-1  , the current file  offset  is updated.
Availability  : Linux  = 4.16.
Added in version 3.10.
os.    read   (    fd   ,    n   ,     /     )  ¶
Read at most  n  bytes from file descriptor  fd .
Return a bytestring containing the bytes read. If the end of the file
referred to by  fd  has been reached, an empty bytes object is returned.
Note
This function is intended for low-level I/O and must be applied to a file
descriptor as returned by    os.open()    or    pipe()   .  To read a
“file object” returned by the built-in function    open()    or by
popen()    or    fdopen()   , or    sys.stdin   , use its
read()    or    readline()    methods.
Changed in version 3.5:  If the system call is interrupted and the signal handler does not raise an
exception, the function now retries the system call instead of raising an
InterruptedError    exception (see     PEP 475   for the rationale).
os.    readinto   (    fd   ,    buffer   ,     /     )  ¶
Read from a file descriptor  fd  into a mutable
buffer object    buffer .
The  buffer  should be mutable and   bytes-like  . On
success, returns the number of bytes read. Less bytes may be read than the
size of the buffer. The underlying system call will be retried when
interrupted by a signal, unless the signal handler raises an exception.
Other errors will not be retried and an error will be raised.
Returns 0 if  fd  is at end of file or if the provided  buffer  has
length 0 (which can be used to check for errors without reading data).
Never returns negative.
Note
This function is intended for low-level I/O and must be applied to a file
descriptor as returned by    os.open()    or    os.pipe()   .  To read a
“file object” returned by the built-in function    open()   , or
sys.stdin   , use its member functions, for example
io.BufferedIOBase.readinto()   ,    io.BufferedIOBase.read()   , or
io.TextIOBase.read()
Added in version 3.14.
os.    sendfile   (    out_fd   ,    in_fd   ,    offset   ,    count    )  ¶
os.    sendfile   (    out_fd   ,    in_fd   ,    offset   ,    count   ,    headers    =    ()   ,    trailers    =    ()   ,    flags    =    0    )
Copy  count  bytes from file descriptor  in_fd  to file descriptor  out_fd
starting at  offset .
Return the number of bytes sent. When EOF is reached return   0  .
The first function notation is supported by all platforms that define
sendfile()  .
On Linux, if  offset  is given as   None  , the bytes are read from the
current position of  in_fd  and the position of  in_fd  is updated.
The second case may be used on macOS and FreeBSD where  headers  and
trailers  are arbitrary sequences of buffers that are written before and
after the data from  in_fd  is written. It returns the same as the first case.
On macOS and FreeBSD, a value of   0   for  count  specifies to send until
the end of  in_fd  is reached.
All platforms support sockets as  out_fd  file descriptor, and some platforms
allow other types (e.g. regular file, pipe) as well.
Cross-platform applications should not use  headers ,  trailers  and  flags
arguments.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
Note
For a higher-level wrapper of   sendfile()  , see
socket.socket.sendfile()   .
Added in version 3.3.
Changed in version 3.9:  Parameters  out  and  in  was renamed to  out_fd  and  in_fd .
os.    SF_NODISKIO   ¶
os.    SF_MNOWAIT   ¶
os.    SF_SYNC   ¶
Parameters to the    sendfile()    function, if the implementation supports
them.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
Added in version 3.3.
os.    SF_NOCACHE   ¶
Parameter to the    sendfile()    function, if the implementation supports
it. The data won’t be cached in the virtual memory and will be freed afterwards.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
Added in version 3.11.
os.    set_blocking   (    fd   ,    blocking   ,     /     )  ¶
Set the blocking mode of the specified file descriptor. Set the
O_NONBLOCK    flag if blocking is   False  , clear the flag otherwise.
See also    get_blocking()    and    socket.socket.setblocking()   .
Availability  : Unix, Windows.
The function is limited on WASI, see   WebAssembly platforms   for more
information.
On Windows, this function is limited to pipes.
Added in version 3.5.
Changed in version 3.12:  Added support for pipes on Windows.
os.    splice   (    src   ,    dst   ,    count   ,    offset_src    =    None   ,    offset_dst    =    None   ,    flags    =    0    )  ¶
Transfer  count  bytes from file descriptor  src , starting from offset
offset_src , to file descriptor  dst , starting from offset  offset_dst .
The splicing behaviour can be modified by specifying a  flags  value.
Any of the following variables may used, combined using bitwise OR
(the   |   operator):
If    SPLICE_F_MOVE    is specified,
the kernel is asked to move pages instead of copying,
but pages may still be copied if the kernel cannot move the pages from the pipe.
If    SPLICE_F_NONBLOCK    is specified,
the kernel is asked to not block on I/O.
This makes the splice pipe operations nonblocking,
but splice may nevertheless block because the spliced file descriptors may block.
If    SPLICE_F_MORE    is specified,
it hints to the kernel that more data will be coming in a subsequent splice.
At least one of the file descriptors must refer to a pipe. If  offset_src
is   None  , then  src  is read from the current position; respectively for
offset_dst . The offset associated to the file descriptor that refers to a
pipe must be   None  . The files pointed to by  src  and  dst  must reside in
the same filesystem, otherwise an    OSError    is raised with
errno    set to    errno.EXDEV   .
This copy is done without the additional cost of transferring data
from the kernel to user space and then back into the kernel. Additionally,
some filesystems could implement extra optimizations. The copy is done as if
both files are opened as binary.
Upon successful completion, returns the number of bytes spliced to or from
the pipe. A return value of 0 means end of input. If  src  refers to a
pipe, then this means that there was no data to transfer, and it would not
make sense to block because there are no writers connected to the write end
of the pipe.
See also
The   splice(2)   man page.
Availability  : Linux  = 2.6.17 with glibc  = 2.5
Added in version 3.10.
os.    SPLICE_F_MOVE   ¶
os.    SPLICE_F_NONBLOCK   ¶
os.    SPLICE_F_MORE   ¶
Added in version 3.10.
os.    readv   (    fd   ,    buffers   ,     /     )  ¶
Read from a file descriptor  fd  into a number of mutable   bytes-like
objects    buffers . Transfer data into each buffer until
it is full and then move on to the next buffer in the sequence to hold the
rest of the data.
Return the total number of bytes actually read which can be less than the
total capacity of all the objects.
The operating system may set a limit (   sysconf()    value
'SC_IOV_MAX'  ) on the number of buffers that can be used.
Availability  : Unix.
Added in version 3.3.
os.    tcgetpgrp   (    fd   ,     /     )  ¶
Return the process group associated with the terminal given by  fd  (an open
file descriptor as returned by    os.open()   ).
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
os.    tcsetpgrp   (    fd   ,    pg   ,     /     )  ¶
Set the process group associated with the terminal given by  fd  (an open file
descriptor as returned by    os.open()   ) to  pg .
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
os.    ttyname   (    fd   ,     /     )  ¶
Return a string which specifies the terminal device associated with
file descriptor  fd .  If  fd  is not associated with a terminal device, an
exception is raised.
Availability  : Unix.
os.    unlockpt   (    fd   ,     /     )  ¶
Unlock the slave pseudo-terminal device associated with the master
pseudo-terminal device to which the file descriptor  fd  refers.
The file descriptor  fd  is not closed upon failure.
Calls the C standard library function   unlockpt()  .
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
Added in version 3.13.
os.    write   (    fd   ,    str   ,     /     )  ¶
Write the bytestring in  str  to file descriptor  fd .
Return the number of bytes actually written.
Note
This function is intended for low-level I/O and must be applied to a file
descriptor as returned by    os.open()    or    pipe()   .  To write a “file
object” returned by the built-in function    open()    or by    popen()    or
fdopen()   , or    sys.stdout    or    sys.stderr   , use its
write()    method.
Changed in version 3.5:  If the system call is interrupted and the signal handler does not raise an
exception, the function now retries the system call instead of raising an
InterruptedError    exception (see     PEP 475   for the rationale).
os.    writev   (    fd   ,    buffers   ,     /     )  ¶
Write the contents of  buffers  to file descriptor  fd .  buffers  must be
a sequence of   bytes-like objects  . Buffers are
processed in array order. Entire contents of the first buffer is written
before proceeding to the second, and so on.
Returns the total number of bytes actually written.
The operating system may set a limit (   sysconf()    value
'SC_IOV_MAX'  ) on the number of buffers that can be used.
Availability  : Unix.
Added in version 3.3.
Querying the size of a terminal ¶
Added in version 3.3.
os.    get_terminal_size   (    fd    =    STDOUT_FILENO   ,     /     )  ¶
Return the size of the terminal window as   (columns,   lines)  ,
tuple of type    terminal_size   .
The optional argument   fd   (default   STDOUT_FILENO  , or standard
output) specifies which file descriptor should be queried.
If the file descriptor is not connected to a terminal, an    OSError
is raised.
shutil.get_terminal_size()    is the high-level function which
should normally be used,   os.get_terminal_size   is the low-level
implementation.
Availability  : Unix, Windows.
class        os.    terminal_size   ¶
A subclass of tuple, holding   (columns,   lines)   of the terminal window size.
columns   ¶
Width of the terminal window in characters.
lines   ¶
Height of the terminal window in characters.
Inheritance of File Descriptors ¶
Added in version 3.4.
A file descriptor has an “inheritable” flag which indicates if the file descriptor
can be inherited by child processes.  Since Python 3.4, file descriptors
created by Python are non-inheritable by default.
On UNIX, non-inheritable file descriptors are closed in child processes at the
execution of a new program, other file descriptors are inherited. Note that
non-inheritable file descriptors are still  inherited  by child processes on    os.fork()   .
On Windows, non-inheritable handles and file descriptors are closed in child
processes, except for standard streams (file descriptors 0, 1 and 2: stdin, stdout
and stderr), which are always inherited.  Using    spawn*    functions,
all inheritable handles and all inheritable file descriptors are inherited.
Using the    subprocess    module, all file descriptors except standard
streams are closed, and inheritable handles are only inherited if the
close_fds  parameter is   False  .
On WebAssembly platforms, the file descriptor cannot be modified.
os.    get_inheritable   (    fd   ,     /     )  ¶
Get the “inheritable” flag of the specified file descriptor (a boolean).
os.    set_inheritable   (    fd   ,    inheritable   ,     /     )  ¶
Set the “inheritable” flag of the specified file descriptor.
os.    get_handle_inheritable   (    handle   ,     /     )  ¶
Get the “inheritable” flag of the specified handle (a boolean).
Availability  : Windows.
os.    set_handle_inheritable   (    handle   ,    inheritable   ,     /     )  ¶
Set the “inheritable” flag of the specified handle.
Availability  : Windows.
Files and Directories ¶
On some Unix platforms, many of these functions support one or more of these
features:
specifying a file descriptor:
Normally the  path  argument provided to functions in the   os   module
must be a string specifying a file path.  However, some functions now
alternatively accept an open file descriptor for their  path  argument.
The function will then operate on the file referred to by the descriptor.
For POSIX systems, Python will call the variant of the function prefixed
with   f   (e.g. call   fchdir   instead of   chdir  ).
You can check whether or not  path  can be specified as a file descriptor
for a particular function on your platform using    os.supports_fd   .
If this functionality is unavailable, using it will raise a
NotImplementedError   .
If the function also supports  dir_fd  or  follow_symlinks  arguments, it’s
an error to specify one of those when supplying  path  as a file descriptor.
paths relative to directory descriptors:  If  dir_fd  is not   None  , it
should be a file descriptor referring to a directory, and the path to operate
on should be relative; path will then be relative to that directory.  If the
path is absolute,  dir_fd  is ignored.  For POSIX systems, Python will call
the variant of the function with an   at   suffix and possibly prefixed with
f   (e.g. call   faccessat   instead of   access  ).
You can check whether or not  dir_fd  is supported for a particular function
on your platform using    os.supports_dir_fd   .  If it’s unavailable,
using it will raise a    NotImplementedError   .
not following symlinks:  If  follow_symlinks  is
False  , and the last element of the path to operate on is a symbolic link,
the function will operate on the symbolic link itself rather than the file
pointed to by the link.  For POSIX systems, Python will call the   l...
variant of the function.
You can check whether or not  follow_symlinks  is supported for a particular
function on your platform using    os.supports_follow_symlinks   .
If it’s unavailable, using it will raise a    NotImplementedError   .
os.    access   (    path   ,    mode   ,     *    ,    dir_fd    =    None   ,    effective_ids    =    False   ,    follow_symlinks    =    True    )  ¶
Use the real uid/gid to test for access to  path .  Note that most operations
will use the effective uid/gid, therefore this routine can be used in a
suid/sgid environment to test if the invoking user has the specified access to
path .   mode  should be    F_OK    to test the existence of  path , or it
can be the inclusive OR of one or more of    R_OK   ,    W_OK   , and
X_OK    to test permissions.  Return    True    if access is allowed,
False    if not. See the Unix man page   access(2)   for more
information.
This function can support specifying   paths relative to directory
descriptors   and   not following symlinks  .
If  effective_ids  is   True  ,   access()   will perform its access
checks using the effective uid/gid instead of the real uid/gid.
effective_ids  may not be supported on your platform; you can check whether
or not it is available using    os.supports_effective_ids   .  If it is
unavailable, using it will raise a    NotImplementedError   .
Note
Using   access()   to check if a user is authorized to e.g. open a file
before actually doing so using    open()    creates a security hole,
because the user might exploit the short time interval between checking
and opening the file to manipulate it. It’s preferable to use   EAFP
techniques. For example:
if   os  .  access  (   myfile   ,   os  .  R_OK  ):
with   open  (   myfile   )   as   fp  :
return   fp  .  read  ()
return    some default data
is better written as:
try  :
fp   =   open  (   myfile   )
except   PermissionError  :
return    some default data
else  :
with   fp  :
return   fp  .  read  ()
Note
I/O operations may fail even when   access()   indicates that they would
succeed, particularly for operations on network filesystems which may have
permissions semantics beyond the usual POSIX permission-bit model.
Changed in version 3.3:  Added the  dir_fd ,  effective_ids , and  follow_symlinks  parameters.
Changed in version 3.6:  Accepts a   path-like object  .
os.    F_OK   ¶
os.    R_OK   ¶
os.    W_OK   ¶
os.    X_OK   ¶
Values to pass as the  mode  parameter of    access()    to test the
existence, readability, writability and executability of  path ,
respectively.
os.    chdir   (    path    )  ¶
Change the current working directory to  path .
This function can support   specifying a file descriptor  .  The
descriptor must refer to an opened directory, not an open file.
This function can raise    OSError    and subclasses such as
FileNotFoundError   ,    PermissionError   , and    NotADirectoryError   .
Raises an   auditing event     os.chdir   with argument   path  .
Changed in version 3.3:  Added support for specifying  path  as a file descriptor
on some platforms.
Changed in version 3.6:  Accepts a   path-like object  .
os.    chflags   (    path   ,    flags   ,     *    ,    follow_symlinks    =    True    )  ¶
Set the flags of  path  to the numeric  flags .  flags  may take a combination
(bitwise OR) of the following values (as defined in the    stat    module):
stat.UF_NODUMP
stat.UF_IMMUTABLE
stat.UF_APPEND
stat.UF_OPAQUE
stat.UF_NOUNLINK
stat.UF_COMPRESSED
stat.UF_HIDDEN
stat.SF_ARCHIVED
stat.SF_IMMUTABLE
stat.SF_APPEND
stat.SF_NOUNLINK
stat.SF_SNAPSHOT
This function can support   not following symlinks  .
Raises an   auditing event     os.chflags   with arguments   path  ,   flags  .
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
Changed in version 3.3:  Added the  follow_symlinks  parameter.
Changed in version 3.6:  Accepts a   path-like object  .
os.    chmod   (    path   ,    mode   ,     *    ,    dir_fd    =    None   ,    follow_symlinks    =    True    )  ¶
Change the mode of  path  to the numeric  mode .  mode  may take one of the
following values (as defined in the    stat    module) or bitwise ORed
combinations of them:
stat.S_ISUID
stat.S_ISGID
stat.S_ENFMT
stat.S_ISVTX
stat.S_IREAD
stat.S_IWRITE
stat.S_IEXEC
stat.S_IRWXU
stat.S_IRUSR
stat.S_IWUSR
stat.S_IXUSR
stat.S_IRWXG
stat.S_IRGRP
stat.S_IWGRP
stat.S_IXGRP
stat.S_IRWXO
stat.S_IROTH
stat.S_IWOTH
stat.S_IXOTH
This function can support   specifying a file descriptor  ,
paths relative to directory descriptors   and   not
following symlinks  .
Note
Although Windows supports   chmod()  , you can only set the file’s
read-only flag with it (via the   stat.S_IWRITE   and   stat.S_IREAD
constants or a corresponding integer value).  All other bits are ignored.
The default value of  follow_symlinks  is   False   on Windows.
The function is limited on WASI, see   WebAssembly platforms   for more
information.
Raises an   auditing event     os.chmod   with arguments   path  ,   mode  ,   dir_fd  .
Changed in version 3.3:  Added support for specifying  path  as an open file descriptor,
and the  dir_fd  and  follow_symlinks  arguments.
Changed in version 3.6:  Accepts a   path-like object  .
Changed in version 3.13:  Added support for a file descriptor and the  follow_symlinks  argument
on Windows.
os.    chown   (    path   ,    uid   ,    gid   ,     *    ,    dir_fd    =    None   ,    follow_symlinks    =    True    )  ¶
Change the owner and group id of  path  to the numeric  uid  and  gid .  To
leave one of the ids unchanged, set it to -1.
This function can support   specifying a file descriptor  ,
paths relative to directory descriptors   and   not
following symlinks  .
See    shutil.chown()    for a higher-level function that accepts names in
addition to numeric ids.
Raises an   auditing event     os.chown   with arguments   path  ,   uid  ,   gid  ,   dir_fd  .
Availability  : Unix.
The function is limited on WASI, see   WebAssembly platforms   for more
information.
Changed in version 3.3:  Added support for specifying  path  as an open file descriptor,
and the  dir_fd  and  follow_symlinks  arguments.
Changed in version 3.6:  Supports a   path-like object  .
os.    chroot   (    path    )  ¶
Change the root directory of the current process to  path .
Availability  : Unix, not WASI, not Android.
Changed in version 3.6:  Accepts a   path-like object  .
os.    fchdir   (    fd    )  ¶
Change the current working directory to the directory represented by the file
descriptor  fd .  The descriptor must refer to an opened directory, not an
open file.  As of Python 3.3, this is equivalent to   os.chdir(fd)  .
Raises an   auditing event     os.chdir   with argument   path  .
Availability  : Unix.
os.    getcwd   (  )  ¶
Return a string representing the current working directory.
os.    getcwdb   (  )  ¶
Return a bytestring representing the current working directory.
Changed in version 3.8:  The function now uses the UTF-8 encoding on Windows, rather than the ANSI
code page: see     PEP 529   for the rationale. The function is no longer
deprecated on Windows.
os.    lchflags   (    path   ,    flags    )  ¶
Set the flags of  path  to the numeric  flags , like    chflags()   , but do
not follow symbolic links.  As of Python 3.3, this is equivalent to
os.chflags(path,   flags,   follow_symlinks=False)  .
Raises an   auditing event     os.chflags   with arguments   path  ,   flags  .
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
Changed in version 3.6:  Accepts a   path-like object  .
os.    lchmod   (    path   ,    mode    )  ¶
Change the mode of  path  to the numeric  mode . If path is a symlink, this
affects the symlink rather than the target.  See the docs for    chmod()
for possible values of  mode .  As of Python 3.3, this is equivalent to
os.chmod(path,   mode,   follow_symlinks=False)  .
lchmod()   is not part of POSIX, but Unix implementations may have it if
changing the mode of symbolic links is supported.
Raises an   auditing event     os.chmod   with arguments   path  ,   mode  ,   dir_fd  .
Availability  : Unix, Windows, not Linux, FreeBSD  = 1.3, NetBSD  = 1.3, not OpenBSD
Changed in version 3.6:  Accepts a   path-like object  .
Changed in version 3.13:  Added support on Windows.
os.    lchown   (    path   ,    uid   ,    gid    )  ¶
Change the owner and group id of  path  to the numeric  uid  and  gid .  This
function will not follow symbolic links.  As of Python 3.3, this is equivalent
to   os.chown(path,   uid,   gid,   follow_symlinks=False)  .
Raises an   auditing event     os.chown   with arguments   path  ,   uid  ,   gid  ,   dir_fd  .
Availability  : Unix.
Changed in version 3.6:  Accepts a   path-like object  .
os.    link   (    src   ,    dst   ,     *    ,    src_dir_fd    =    None   ,    dst_dir_fd    =    None   ,    follow_symlinks    =    True    )  ¶
Create a hard link pointing to  src  named  dst .
This function can support specifying  src_dir_fd  and/or  dst_dir_fd  to
supply   paths relative to directory descriptors  , and   not
following symlinks  .
The default value of  follow_symlinks  is   False   on Windows.
Raises an   auditing event     os.link   with arguments   src  ,   dst  ,   src_dir_fd  ,   dst_dir_fd  .
Availability  : Unix, Windows.
Changed in version 3.2:  Added Windows support.
Changed in version 3.3:  Added the  src_dir_fd ,  dst_dir_fd , and  follow_symlinks  parameters.
Changed in version 3.6:  Accepts a   path-like object   for  src  and  dst .
os.    listdir   (    path    =    '.'    )  ¶
Return a list containing the names of the entries in the directory given by
path .  The list is in arbitrary order, and does not include the special
entries   '.'   and   '..'   even if they are present in the directory.
If a file is removed from or added to the directory during the call of
this function, whether a name for that file be included is unspecified.
path  may be a   path-like object  .  If  path  is of type   bytes
(directly or indirectly through the    PathLike    interface),
the filenames returned will also be of type   bytes  ;
in all other circumstances, they will be of type   str  .
This function can also support   specifying a file descriptor  ; the file descriptor must refer to a directory.
Raises an   auditing event     os.listdir   with argument   path  .
Note
To encode   str   filenames to   bytes  , use    fsencode()   .
See also
The    scandir()    function returns directory entries along with
file attribute information, giving better performance for many
common use cases.
Changed in version 3.2:  The  path  parameter became optional.
Changed in version 3.3:  Added support for specifying  path  as an open file descriptor.
Changed in version 3.6:  Accepts a   path-like object  .
os.    listdrives   (  )  ¶
Return a list containing the names of drives on a Windows system.
A drive name typically looks like   'C:\\'  . Not every drive name
will be associated with a volume, and some may be inaccessible for
a variety of reasons, including permissions, network connectivity
or missing media. This function does not test for access.
May raise    OSError    if an error occurs collecting the drive
names.
Raises an   auditing event     os.listdrives   with no arguments.
Availability  : Windows
Added in version 3.12.
os.    listmounts   (    volume    )  ¶
Return a list containing the mount points for a volume on a Windows
system.
volume  must be represented as a GUID path, like those returned by
os.listvolumes()   . Volumes may be mounted in multiple locations
or not at all. In the latter case, the list will be empty. Mount
points that are not associated with a volume will not be returned by
this function.
The mount points return by this function will be absolute paths, and
may be longer than the drive name.
Raises    OSError    if the volume is not recognized or if an error
occurs collecting the paths.
Raises an   auditing event     os.listmounts   with argument   volume  .
Availability  : Windows
Added in version 3.12.
os.    listvolumes   (  )  ¶
Return a list containing the volumes in the system.
Volumes are typically represented as a GUID path that looks like
\\?\Volume{xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx}\  . Files can
usually be accessed through a GUID path, permissions allowing.
However, users are generally not familiar with them, and so the
recommended use of this function is to retrieve mount points
using    os.listmounts()   .
May raise    OSError    if an error occurs collecting the volumes.
Raises an   auditing event     os.listvolumes   with no arguments.
Availability  : Windows
Added in version 3.12.
os.    lstat   (    path   ,     *    ,    dir_fd    =    None    )  ¶
Perform the equivalent of an   lstat()   system call on the given path.
Similar to    stat()   , but does not follow symbolic links. Return a
stat_result    object.
On platforms that do not support symbolic links, this is an alias for
stat()   .
As of Python 3.3, this is equivalent to   os.stat(path,   dir_fd=dir_fd,
follow_symlinks=False)  .
This function can also support   paths relative to directory descriptors  .
See also
The    stat()    function.
Changed in version 3.2:  Added support for Windows 6.0 (Vista) symbolic links.
Changed in version 3.3:  Added the  dir_fd  parameter.
Changed in version 3.6:  Accepts a   path-like object  .
Changed in version 3.8:  On Windows, now opens reparse points that represent another path
(name surrogates), including symbolic links and directory junctions.
Other kinds of reparse points are resolved by the operating system as
for    stat()   .
os.    mkdir   (    path   ,    mode    =    0o777   ,     *    ,    dir_fd    =    None    )  ¶
Create a directory named  path  with numeric mode  mode .
If the directory already exists,    FileExistsError    is raised. If a parent
directory in the path does not exist,    FileNotFoundError    is raised.
On some systems,  mode  is ignored.  Where it is used, the current umask
value is first masked out.  If bits other than the last 9 (i.e. the last 3
digits of the octal representation of the  mode ) are set, their meaning is
platform-dependent.  On some platforms, they are ignored and you should call
chmod()    explicitly to set them.
On Windows, a  mode  of   0o700   is specifically handled to apply access
control to the new directory such that only the current user and
administrators have access. Other values of  mode  are ignored.
This function can also support   paths relative to directory descriptors  .
It is also possible to create temporary directories; see the
tempfile    module’s    tempfile.mkdtemp()    function.
Raises an   auditing event     os.mkdir   with arguments   path  ,   mode  ,   dir_fd  .
Changed in version 3.3:  Added the  dir_fd  parameter.
Changed in version 3.6:  Accepts a   path-like object  .
Changed in version 3.13:  Windows now handles a  mode  of   0o700  .
os.    makedirs   (    name   ,    mode    =    0o777   ,    exist_ok    =    False    )  ¶
Recursive directory creation function.  Like    mkdir()   , but makes all
intermediate-level directories needed to contain the leaf directory.
The  mode  parameter is passed to    mkdir()    for creating the leaf
directory; see   the mkdir() description   for how it
is interpreted.  To set the file permission bits of any newly created parent
directories you can set the umask before invoking   makedirs()  .  The
file permission bits of existing parent directories are not changed.
If  exist_ok  is   False   (the default), a    FileExistsError    is
raised if the target directory already exists.
Note
makedirs()   will become confused if the path elements to create
include    pardir    (eg. “..” on UNIX systems).
This function handles UNC paths correctly.
Raises an   auditing event     os.mkdir   with arguments   path  ,   mode  ,   dir_fd  .
Changed in version 3.2:  Added the  exist_ok  parameter.
Changed in version 3.4.1:  Before Python 3.4.1, if  exist_ok  was   True   and the directory existed,
makedirs()   would still raise an error if  mode  did not match the
mode of the existing directory. Since this behavior was impossible to
implement safely, it was removed in Python 3.4.1. See  bpo-21082 .
Changed in version 3.6:  Accepts a   path-like object  .
Changed in version 3.7:  The  mode  argument no longer affects the file permission bits of
newly created intermediate-level directories.
os.    mkfifo   (    path   ,    mode    =    0o666   ,     *    ,    dir_fd    =    None    )  ¶
Create a FIFO (a named pipe) named  path  with numeric mode  mode .
The current umask value is first masked out from the mode.
This function can also support   paths relative to directory descriptors  .
FIFOs are pipes that can be accessed like regular files.  FIFOs exist until they
are deleted (for example with    os.unlink()   ). Generally, FIFOs are used as
rendezvous between “client” and “server” type processes: the server opens the
FIFO for reading, and the client opens it for writing.  Note that   mkfifo()
doesn’t open the FIFO — it just creates the rendezvous point.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
Changed in version 3.3:  Added the  dir_fd  parameter.
Changed in version 3.6:  Accepts a   path-like object  .
os.    mknod   (    path   ,    mode    =    0o600   ,    device    =    0   ,     *    ,    dir_fd    =    None    )  ¶
Create a filesystem node (file, device special file or named pipe) named
path .  mode  specifies both the permissions to use and the type of node
to be created, being combined (bitwise OR) with one of   stat.S_IFREG  ,
stat.S_IFCHR  ,   stat.S_IFBLK  , and   stat.S_IFIFO   (those constants are
available in    stat   ).  For   stat.S_IFCHR   and   stat.S_IFBLK  ,
device  defines the newly created device special file (probably using
os.makedev()   ), otherwise it is ignored.
This function can also support   paths relative to directory descriptors  .
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
Changed in version 3.3:  Added the  dir_fd  parameter.
Changed in version 3.6:  Accepts a   path-like object  .
os.    major   (    device   ,     /     )  ¶
Extract the device major number from a raw device number (usually the
st_dev   or   st_rdev   field from   stat  ).
os.    minor   (    device   ,     /     )  ¶
Extract the device minor number from a raw device number (usually the
st_dev   or   st_rdev   field from   stat  ).
os.    makedev   (    major   ,    minor   ,     /     )  ¶
Compose a raw device number from the major and minor device numbers.
os.    pathconf   (    path   ,    name    )  ¶
Return system configuration information relevant to a named file.  name
specifies the configuration value to retrieve; it may be a string which is the
name of a defined system value; these names are specified in a number of
standards (POSIX.1, Unix 95, Unix 98, and others).  Some platforms define
additional names as well.  The names known to the host operating system are
given in the   pathconf_names   dictionary.  For configuration variables not
included in that mapping, passing an integer for  name  is also accepted.
If  name  is a string and is not known,    ValueError    is raised.  If a
specific value for  name  is not supported by the host system, even if it is
included in   pathconf_names  , an    OSError    is raised with
errno.EINVAL    for the error number.
This function can support   specifying a file descriptor  .
Availability  : Unix.
Changed in version 3.6:  Accepts a   path-like object  .
os.    pathconf_names   ¶
Dictionary mapping names accepted by    pathconf()    and    fpathconf()    to
the integer values defined for those names by the host operating system.  This
can be used to determine the set of names known to the system.
Availability  : Unix.
os.    readlink   (    path   ,     *    ,    dir_fd    =    None    )  ¶
Return a string representing the path to which the symbolic link points.  The
result may be either an absolute or relative pathname; if it is relative, it
may be converted to an absolute pathname using
os.path.join(os.path.dirname(path),   result)  .
If the  path  is a string object (directly or indirectly through a
PathLike    interface), the result will also be a string object,
and the call may raise a UnicodeDecodeError. If the  path  is a bytes
object (direct or indirectly), the result will be a bytes object.
This function can also support   paths relative to directory descriptors  .
When trying to resolve a path that may contain links, use
realpath()    to properly handle recursion and platform
differences.
Availability  : Unix, Windows.
Changed in version 3.2:  Added support for Windows 6.0 (Vista) symbolic links.
Changed in version 3.3:  Added the  dir_fd  parameter.
Changed in version 3.6:  Accepts a   path-like object   on Unix.
Changed in version 3.8:  Accepts a   path-like object   and a bytes object on Windows.
Added support for directory junctions, and changed to return the
substitution path (which typically includes   \\?\   prefix) rather
than the optional “print name” field that was previously returned.
os.    remove   (    path   ,     *    ,    dir_fd    =    None    )  ¶
Remove (delete) the file  path .  If  path  is a directory, an
OSError    is raised.  Use    rmdir()    to remove directories.
If the file does not exist, a    FileNotFoundError    is raised.
This function can support   paths relative to directory descriptors  .
On Windows, attempting to remove a file that is in use causes an exception to
be raised; on Unix, the directory entry is removed but the storage allocated
to the file is not made available until the original file is no longer in use.
This function is semantically identical to    unlink()   .
Raises an   auditing event     os.remove   with arguments   path  ,   dir_fd  .
Changed in version 3.3:  Added the  dir_fd  parameter.
Changed in version 3.6:  Accepts a   path-like object  .
os.    removedirs   (    name    )  ¶
Remove directories recursively.  Works like    rmdir()    except that, if the
leaf directory is successfully removed,   removedirs()    tries to
successively remove every parent directory mentioned in   path  until an error
is raised (which is ignored, because it generally means that a parent directory
is not empty). For example,   os.removedirs('foo/bar/baz')   will first remove
the directory   'foo/bar/baz'  , and then remove   'foo/bar'   and   'foo'   if
they are empty. Raises    OSError    if the leaf directory could not be
successfully removed.
Raises an   auditing event     os.remove   with arguments   path  ,   dir_fd  .
Changed in version 3.6:  Accepts a   path-like object  .
os.    rename   (    src   ,    dst   ,     *    ,    src_dir_fd    =    None   ,    dst_dir_fd    =    None    )  ¶
Rename the file or directory  src  to  dst . If  dst  exists, the operation
will fail with an    OSError    subclass in a number of cases:
On Windows, if  dst  exists a    FileExistsError    is always raised.
The operation may fail if  src  and  dst  are on different filesystems. Use
shutil.move()    to support moves to a different filesystem.
On Unix, if  src  is a file and  dst  is a directory or vice-versa, an
IsADirectoryError    or a    NotADirectoryError    will be raised
respectively.  If both are directories and  dst  is empty,  dst  will be
silently replaced.  If  dst  is a non-empty directory, an    OSError
is raised. If both are files,  dst  will be replaced silently if the user
has permission.  The operation may fail on some Unix flavors if  src  and
dst  are on different filesystems.  If successful, the renaming will be an
atomic operation (this is a POSIX requirement).
This function can support specifying  src_dir_fd  and/or  dst_dir_fd  to
supply   paths relative to directory descriptors  .
If you want cross-platform overwriting of the destination, use    replace()   .
Raises an   auditing event     os.rename   with arguments   src  ,   dst  ,   src_dir_fd  ,   dst_dir_fd  .
Changed in version 3.3:  Added the  src_dir_fd  and  dst_dir_fd  parameters.
Changed in version 3.6:  Accepts a   path-like object   for  src  and  dst .
os.    renames   (    old   ,    new    )  ¶
Recursive directory or file renaming function. Works like    rename()   , except
creation of any intermediate directories needed to make the new pathname good is
attempted first. After the rename, directories corresponding to rightmost path
segments of the old name will be pruned away using    removedirs()   .
Note
This function can fail with the new directory structure made if you lack
permissions needed to remove the leaf directory or file.
Raises an   auditing event     os.rename   with arguments   src  ,   dst  ,   src_dir_fd  ,   dst_dir_fd  .
Changed in version 3.6:  Accepts a   path-like object   for  old  and  new .
os.    replace   (    src   ,    dst   ,     *    ,    src_dir_fd    =    None   ,    dst_dir_fd    =    None    )  ¶
Rename the file or directory  src  to  dst .  If  dst  is a non-empty directory,
OSError    will be raised.  If  dst  exists and is a file, it will
be replaced silently if the user has permission.  The operation may fail
if  src  and  dst  are on different filesystems.  If successful,
the renaming will be an atomic operation (this is a POSIX requirement).
This function can support specifying  src_dir_fd  and/or  dst_dir_fd  to
supply   paths relative to directory descriptors  .
Raises an   auditing event     os.rename   with arguments   src  ,   dst  ,   src_dir_fd  ,   dst_dir_fd  .
Added in version 3.3.
Changed in version 3.6:  Accepts a   path-like object   for  src  and  dst .
os.    rmdir   (    path   ,     *    ,    dir_fd    =    None    )  ¶
Remove (delete) the directory  path .  If the directory does not exist or is
not empty, a    FileNotFoundError    or an    OSError    is raised
respectively.  In order to remove whole directory trees,
shutil.rmtree()    can be used.
This function can support   paths relative to directory descriptors  .
Raises an   auditing event     os.rmdir   with arguments   path  ,   dir_fd  .
Changed in version 3.3:  Added the  dir_fd  parameter.
Changed in version 3.6:  Accepts a   path-like object  .
os.    scandir   (    path    =    '.'    )  ¶
Return an iterator of    os.DirEntry    objects corresponding to the
entries in the directory given by  path . The entries are yielded in
arbitrary order, and the special entries   '.'   and   '..'   are not
included.  If a file is removed from or added to the directory after
creating the iterator, whether an entry for that file be included is
unspecified.
Using   scandir()   instead of    listdir()    can significantly
increase the performance of code that also needs file type or file
attribute information, because    os.DirEntry    objects expose this
information if the operating system provides it when scanning a directory.
All   os.DirEntry   methods may perform a system call, but
is_dir()    and    is_file()    usually only
require a system call for symbolic links;    os.DirEntry.stat()
always requires a system call on Unix but only requires one for
symbolic links on Windows.
path  may be a   path-like object  .  If  path  is of type   bytes
(directly or indirectly through the    PathLike    interface),
the type of the    name    and    path
attributes of each    os.DirEntry    will be   bytes  ; in all other
circumstances, they will be of type   str  .
This function can also support   specifying a file descriptor  ; the file descriptor must refer to a directory.
Raises an   auditing event     os.scandir   with argument   path  .
The   scandir()   iterator supports the   context manager   protocol
and has the following method:
scandir.    close   (  )  ¶
Close the iterator and free acquired resources.
This is called automatically when the iterator is exhausted or garbage
collected, or when an error happens during iterating.  However it
is advisable to call it explicitly or use the    with
statement.
Added in version 3.6.
The following example shows a simple use of   scandir()   to display all
the files (excluding directories) in the given  path  that don’t start with
'.'  . The   entry.is_file()   call will generally not make an additional
system call:
with   os  .  scandir  (  path  )   as   it  :
for   entry   in   it  :
if   not   entry  .  name  .  startswith  (   .   )   and   entry  .  is_file  ():
print  (  entry  .  name  )
Note
On Unix-based systems,   scandir()   uses the system’s
opendir()
readdir()
functions. On Windows, it uses the Win32
FindFirstFileW
FindNextFileW
functions.
Added in version 3.5.
Changed in version 3.6:  Added support for the   context manager   protocol and the
close()    method.  If a   scandir()   iterator is neither
exhausted nor explicitly closed a    ResourceWarning    will be emitted
in its destructor.
The function accepts a   path-like object  .
Changed in version 3.7:  Added support for   file descriptors   on Unix.
class        os.    DirEntry   ¶
Object yielded by    scandir()    to expose the file path and other file
attributes of a directory entry.
scandir()    will provide as much of this information as possible without
making additional system calls. When a   stat()   or   lstat()   system call
is made, the   os.DirEntry   object will cache the result.
os.DirEntry   instances are not intended to be stored in long-lived data
structures; if you know the file metadata has changed or if a long time has
elapsed since calling    scandir()   , call   os.stat(entry.path)   to fetch
up-to-date information.
Because the   os.DirEntry   methods can make operating system calls, they may
also raise    OSError   . If you need very fine-grained
control over errors, you can catch   OSError   when calling one of the
os.DirEntry   methods and handle as appropriate.
To be directly usable as a   path-like object  ,   os.DirEntry
implements the    PathLike    interface.
Attributes and methods on a   os.DirEntry   instance are as follows:
name   ¶
The entry’s base filename, relative to the    scandir()     path
argument.
The    name    attribute will be   bytes   if the    scandir()
path  argument is of type   bytes   and   str   otherwise.  Use
fsdecode()    to decode byte filenames.
path   ¶
The entry’s full path name: equivalent to   os.path.join(scandir_path,
entry.name)   where  scandir_path  is the    scandir()     path
argument.  The path is only absolute if the   scandir()    path
argument was absolute.  If the   scandir()    path
argument was a   file descriptor  , the    path
attribute is the same as the    name    attribute.
The    path    attribute will be   bytes   if the    scandir()
path  argument is of type   bytes   and   str   otherwise.  Use
fsdecode()    to decode byte filenames.
inode   (  )  ¶
Return the inode number of the entry.
The result is cached on the   os.DirEntry   object. Use
os.stat(entry.path,   follow_symlinks=False).st_ino   to fetch up-to-date
information.
On the first, uncached call, a system call is required on Windows but
not on Unix.
is_dir   (     *    ,    follow_symlinks    =    True    )  ¶
Return   True   if this entry is a directory or a symbolic link pointing
to a directory; return   False   if the entry is or points to any other
kind of file, or if it doesn’t exist anymore.
If  follow_symlinks  is   False  , return   True   only if this entry
is a directory (without following symlinks); return   False   if the
entry is any other kind of file or if it doesn’t exist anymore.
The result is cached on the   os.DirEntry   object, with a separate cache
for  follow_symlinks    True   and   False  . Call    os.stat()    along
with    stat.S_ISDIR()    to fetch up-to-date information.
On the first, uncached call, no system call is required in most cases.
Specifically, for non-symlinks, neither Windows or Unix require a system
call, except on certain Unix file systems, such as network file systems,
that return   dirent.d_type   ==   DT_UNKNOWN  . If the entry is a symlink,
a system call will be required to follow the symlink unless
follow_symlinks  is   False  .
This method can raise    OSError   , such as    PermissionError   ,
but    FileNotFoundError    is caught and not raised.
is_file   (     *    ,    follow_symlinks    =    True    )  ¶
Return   True   if this entry is a file or a symbolic link pointing to a
file; return   False   if the entry is or points to a directory or other
non-file entry, or if it doesn’t exist anymore.
If  follow_symlinks  is   False  , return   True   only if this entry
is a file (without following symlinks); return   False   if the entry is
a directory or other non-file entry, or if it doesn’t exist anymore.
The result is cached on the   os.DirEntry   object. Caching, system calls
made, and exceptions raised are as per    is_dir()   .
is_symlink   (  )  ¶
Return   True   if this entry is a symbolic link (even if broken);
return   False   if the entry points to a directory or any kind of file,
or if it doesn’t exist anymore.
The result is cached on the   os.DirEntry   object. Call
os.path.islink()    to fetch up-to-date information.
On the first, uncached call, no system call is required in most cases.
Specifically, neither Windows or Unix require a system call, except on
certain Unix file systems, such as network file systems, that return
dirent.d_type   ==   DT_UNKNOWN  .
This method can raise    OSError   , such as    PermissionError   ,
but    FileNotFoundError    is caught and not raised.
is_junction   (  )  ¶
Return   True   if this entry is a junction (even if broken);
return   False   if the entry points to a regular directory, any kind
of file, a symlink, or if it doesn’t exist anymore.
The result is cached on the   os.DirEntry   object. Call
os.path.isjunction()    to fetch up-to-date information.
Added in version 3.12.
stat   (     *    ,    follow_symlinks    =    True    )  ¶
Return a    stat_result    object for this entry. This method
follows symbolic links by default; to stat a symbolic link add the
follow_symlinks=False   argument.
On Unix, this method always requires a system call. On Windows, it
only requires a system call if  follow_symlinks  is   True   and the
entry is a reparse point (for example, a symbolic link or directory
junction).
On Windows, the   st_ino  ,   st_dev   and   st_nlink   attributes of the
stat_result    are always set to zero. Call    os.stat()    to
get these attributes.
The result is cached on the   os.DirEntry   object, with a separate cache
for  follow_symlinks    True   and   False  . Call    os.stat()    to
fetch up-to-date information.
Note that there is a nice correspondence between several attributes
and methods of   os.DirEntry   and of    pathlib.Path   .  In
particular, the   name   attribute has the same
meaning, as do the   is_dir()  ,   is_file()  ,   is_symlink()  ,
is_junction()  , and   stat()   methods.
Added in version 3.5.
Changed in version 3.6:  Added support for the    PathLike    interface.  Added support
for    bytes    paths on Windows.
Changed in version 3.12:  The   st_ctime   attribute of a stat result is deprecated on Windows.
The file creation time is properly available as   st_birthtime  , and
in the future   st_ctime   may be changed to return zero or the
metadata change time, if available.
os.    stat   (    path   ,     *    ,    dir_fd    =    None   ,    follow_symlinks    =    True    )  ¶
Get the status of a file or a file descriptor. Perform the equivalent of a
stat()   system call on the given path.  path  may be specified as
either a string or bytes – directly or indirectly through the    PathLike
interface – or as an open file descriptor. Return a    stat_result
object.
This function normally follows symlinks; to stat a symlink add the argument
follow_symlinks=False  , or use    lstat()   .
This function can support   specifying a file descriptor   and
not following symlinks  .
On Windows, passing   follow_symlinks=False   will disable following all
name-surrogate reparse points, which includes symlinks and directory
junctions. Other types of reparse points that do not resemble links or that
the operating system is unable to follow will be opened directly. When
following a chain of multiple links, this may result in the original link
being returned instead of the non-link that prevented full traversal. To
obtain stat results for the final path in this case, use the
os.path.realpath()    function to resolve the path name as far as
possible and call    lstat()    on the result. This does not apply to
dangling symlinks or junction points, which will raise the usual exceptions.
Example:
import     os
statinfo   =   os  .  stat  (   somefile.txt   )
statinfo
os.stat_result(st_mode=33188, st_ino=7876932, st_dev=234881026,
st_nlink=1, st_uid=501, st_gid=501, st_size=264, st_atime=1297230295,
st_mtime=1297230027, st_ctime=1297230027)
statinfo  .  st_size
See also
fstat()    and    lstat()    functions.
Changed in version 3.3:  Added the  dir_fd  and  follow_symlinks  parameters,
specifying a file descriptor instead of a path.
Changed in version 3.6:  Accepts a   path-like object  .
Changed in version 3.8:  On Windows, all reparse points that can be resolved by the operating
system are now followed, and passing   follow_symlinks=False
disables following all name surrogate reparse points. If the operating
system reaches a reparse point that it is not able to follow,  stat  now
returns the information for the original path as if
follow_symlinks=False   had been specified instead of raising an error.
class        os.    stat_result   ¶
Object whose attributes correspond roughly to the members of the
stat   structure. It is used for the result of    os.stat()   ,
os.fstat()    and    os.lstat()   .
Attributes:
st_mode   ¶
File mode: file type and file mode bits (permissions).
st_ino   ¶
Platform dependent, but if non-zero, uniquely identifies the
file for a given value of   st_dev  . Typically:
the inode number on Unix,
the  file index  on
Windows
st_dev   ¶
Identifier of the device on which this file resides.
st_nlink   ¶
Number of hard links.
st_uid   ¶
User identifier of the file owner.
st_gid   ¶
Group identifier of the file owner.
st_size   ¶
Size of the file in bytes, if it is a regular file or a symbolic link.
The size of a symbolic link is the length of the pathname it contains,
without a terminating null byte.
Timestamps:
st_atime   ¶
Time of most recent access expressed in seconds.
st_mtime   ¶
Time of most recent content modification expressed in seconds.
st_ctime   ¶
Time of most recent metadata change expressed in seconds.
Changed in version 3.12:    st_ctime   is deprecated on Windows. Use   st_birthtime   for
the file creation time. In the future,   st_ctime   will contain
the time of the most recent metadata change, as for other platforms.
st_atime_ns   ¶
Time of most recent access expressed in nanoseconds as an integer.
Added in version 3.3.
st_mtime_ns   ¶
Time of most recent content modification expressed in nanoseconds as an
integer.
Added in version 3.3.
st_ctime_ns   ¶
Time of most recent metadata change expressed in nanoseconds as an
integer.
Added in version 3.3.
Changed in version 3.12:    st_ctime_ns   is deprecated on Windows. Use   st_birthtime_ns
for the file creation time. In the future,   st_ctime   will contain
the time of the most recent metadata change, as for other platforms.
st_birthtime   ¶
Time of file creation expressed in seconds. This attribute is not
always available, and may raise    AttributeError   .
Changed in version 3.12:    st_birthtime   is now available on Windows.
st_birthtime_ns   ¶
Time of file creation expressed in nanoseconds as an integer.
This attribute is not always available, and may raise
AttributeError   .
Added in version 3.12.
Note
The exact meaning and resolution of the    st_atime   ,
st_mtime   ,    st_ctime    and    st_birthtime    attributes
depend on the operating system and the file system. For example, on
Windows systems using the FAT32 file systems,   st_mtime   has
2-second resolution, and   st_atime   has only 1-day resolution.
See your operating system documentation for details.
Similarly, although    st_atime_ns   ,    st_mtime_ns   ,
st_ctime_ns    and    st_birthtime_ns    are always expressed in
nanoseconds, many systems do not provide nanosecond precision.  On
systems that do provide nanosecond precision, the floating-point object
used to store    st_atime   ,    st_mtime   ,    st_ctime    and
st_birthtime    cannot preserve all of it, and as such will be
slightly inexact. If you need the exact timestamps you should always use
st_atime_ns  ,   st_mtime_ns  ,   st_ctime_ns   and
st_birthtime_ns  .
On some Unix systems (such as Linux), the following attributes may also be
available:
st_blocks   ¶
Number of 512-byte blocks allocated for file.
This may be smaller than    st_size   /512 when the file has holes.
st_blksize   ¶
“Preferred” blocksize for efficient file system I/O. Writing to a file in
smaller chunks may cause an inefficient read-modify-rewrite.
st_rdev   ¶
Type of device if an inode device.
st_flags   ¶
User defined flags for file.
On other Unix systems (such as FreeBSD), the following attributes may be
available (but may be only filled out if root tries to use them):
st_gen   ¶
File generation number.
On Solaris and derivatives, the following attributes may also be
available:
st_fstype   ¶
String that uniquely identifies the type of the filesystem that
contains the file.
On macOS systems, the following attributes may also be available:
st_rsize   ¶
Real size of the file.
st_creator   ¶
Creator of the file.
st_type   ¶
File type.
On Windows systems, the following attributes are also available:
st_file_attributes   ¶
Windows file attributes:   dwFileAttributes   member of the
BY_HANDLE_FILE_INFORMATION   structure returned by
GetFileInformationByHandle()  .
See the   FILE_ATTRIBUTE_*    stat.FILE_ATTRIBUTE_ARCHIVE
constants in the    stat    module.
Added in version 3.5.
st_reparse_tag   ¶
When    st_file_attributes    has the    FILE_ATTRIBUTE_REPARSE_POINT
set, this field contains the tag identifying the type of reparse point.
See the    IO_REPARSE_TAG_*
constants in the    stat    module.
The standard module    stat    defines functions and constants that are
useful for extracting information from a   stat   structure. (On
Windows, some items are filled with dummy values.)
For backward compatibility, a   stat_result   instance is also
accessible as a tuple of at least 10 integers giving the most important (and
portable) members of the   stat   structure, in the order
st_mode   ,    st_ino   ,    st_dev   ,    st_nlink   ,
st_uid   ,    st_gid   ,    st_size   ,    st_atime   ,
st_mtime   ,    st_ctime   . More items may be added at the end by
some implementations. For compatibility with older Python versions,
accessing   stat_result   as a tuple always returns integers.
Changed in version 3.5:  Windows now returns the file index as    st_ino    when
available.
Changed in version 3.7:  Added the    st_fstype    member to Solaris/derivatives.
Changed in version 3.8:  Added the    st_reparse_tag    member on Windows.
Changed in version 3.8:  On Windows, the    st_mode    member now identifies special
files as   S_IFCHR  ,   S_IFIFO   or   S_IFBLK
as appropriate.
Changed in version 3.12:  On Windows,    st_ctime    is deprecated. Eventually, it will
contain the last metadata change time, for consistency with other
platforms, but for now still contains creation time.
Use    st_birthtime    for the creation time.
On Windows,    st_ino    may now be up to 128 bits, depending
on the file system. Previously it would not be above 64 bits, and
larger file identifiers would be arbitrarily packed.
On Windows,    st_rdev    no longer returns a value. Previously
it would contain the same as    st_dev   , which was incorrect.
Added the    st_birthtime    member on Windows.
os.    statvfs   (    path    )  ¶
Perform a   statvfs()   system call on the given path.  The return value is
an object whose attributes describe the filesystem on the given path, and
correspond to the members of the   statvfs   structure, namely:
f_bsize  ,   f_frsize  ,   f_blocks  ,   f_bfree  ,
f_bavail  ,   f_files  ,   f_ffree  ,   f_favail  ,
f_flag  ,   f_namemax  ,   f_fsid  .
Two module-level constants are defined for the   f_flag   attribute’s
bit-flags: if   ST_RDONLY   is set, the filesystem is mounted
read-only, and if   ST_NOSUID   is set, the semantics of
setuid/setgid bits are disabled or not supported.
Additional module-level constants are defined for GNU/glibc based systems.
These are   ST_NODEV   (disallow access to device special files),
ST_NOEXEC   (disallow program execution),   ST_SYNCHRONOUS
(writes are synced at once),   ST_MANDLOCK   (allow mandatory locks on an FS),
ST_WRITE   (write on file/directory/symlink),   ST_APPEND
(append-only file),   ST_IMMUTABLE   (immutable file),   ST_NOATIME
(do not update access times),   ST_NODIRATIME   (do not update directory access
times),   ST_RELATIME   (update atime relative to mtime/ctime).
This function can support   specifying a file descriptor  .
Availability  : Unix.
Changed in version 3.2:  The   ST_RDONLY   and   ST_NOSUID   constants were added.
Changed in version 3.3:  Added support for specifying  path  as an open file descriptor.
Changed in version 3.4:  The   ST_NODEV  ,   ST_NOEXEC  ,   ST_SYNCHRONOUS  ,
ST_MANDLOCK  ,   ST_WRITE  ,   ST_APPEND  ,
ST_IMMUTABLE  ,   ST_NOATIME  ,   ST_NODIRATIME  ,
and   ST_RELATIME   constants were added.
Changed in version 3.6:  Accepts a   path-like object  .
Changed in version 3.7:  Added the   f_fsid   attribute.
os.    supports_dir_fd   ¶
A    set    object indicating which functions in the   os
module accept an open file descriptor for their  dir_fd  parameter.
Different platforms provide different features, and the underlying
functionality Python uses to implement the  dir_fd  parameter is not
available on all platforms Python supports.  For consistency’s sake,
functions that may support  dir_fd  always allow specifying the
parameter, but will throw an exception if the functionality is used
when it’s not locally available. (Specifying   None   for  dir_fd
is always supported on all platforms.)
To check whether a particular function accepts an open file descriptor
for its  dir_fd  parameter, use the   in   operator on   supports_dir_fd  .
As an example, this expression evaluates to   True   if    os.stat()
accepts open file descriptors for  dir_fd  on the local platform:
os  .  stat   in   os  .  supports_dir_fd
Currently  dir_fd  parameters only work on Unix platforms;
none of them work on Windows.
Added in version 3.3.
os.    supports_effective_ids   ¶
A    set    object indicating whether    os.access()    permits
specifying   True   for its  effective_ids  parameter on the local platform.
(Specifying   False   for  effective_ids  is always supported on all
platforms.)  If the local platform supports it, the collection will contain
os.access()  ; otherwise it will be empty.
This expression evaluates to   True   if    os.access()    supports
effective_ids=True   on the local platform:
os  .  access   in   os  .  supports_effective_ids
Currently  effective_ids  is only supported on Unix platforms;
it does not work on Windows.
Added in version 3.3.
os.    supports_fd   ¶
A    set    object indicating which functions in the
os   module permit specifying their  path  parameter as an open file
descriptor on the local platform.  Different platforms provide different
features, and the underlying functionality Python uses to accept open file
descriptors as  path  arguments is not available on all platforms Python
supports.
To determine whether a particular function permits specifying an open file
descriptor for its  path  parameter, use the   in   operator on
supports_fd  . As an example, this expression evaluates to   True   if
os.chdir()    accepts open file descriptors for  path  on your local
platform:
os  .  chdir   in   os  .  supports_fd
Added in version 3.3.
os.    supports_follow_symlinks   ¶
A    set    object indicating which functions in the   os   module
accept   False   for their  follow_symlinks  parameter on the local platform.
Different platforms provide different features, and the underlying
functionality Python uses to implement  follow_symlinks  is not available
on all platforms Python supports.  For consistency’s sake, functions that
may support  follow_symlinks  always allow specifying the parameter, but
will throw an exception if the functionality is used when it’s not locally
available.  (Specifying   True   for  follow_symlinks  is always supported
on all platforms.)
To check whether a particular function accepts   False   for its
follow_symlinks  parameter, use the   in   operator on
supports_follow_symlinks  .  As an example, this expression evaluates
to   True   if you may specify   follow_symlinks=False   when calling
os.stat()    on the local platform:
os  .  stat   in   os  .  supports_follow_symlinks
Added in version 3.3.
os.    symlink   (    src   ,    dst   ,    target_is_directory    =    False   ,     *    ,    dir_fd    =    None    )  ¶
Create a symbolic link pointing to  src  named  dst .
The  src  parameter refers to the target of the link (the file or directory being linked to),
and  dst  is the name of the link being created.
On Windows, a symlink represents either a file or a directory, and does not
morph to the target dynamically.  If the target is present, the type of the
symlink will be created to match. Otherwise, the symlink will be created
as a directory if  target_is_directory  is   True   or a file symlink (the
default) otherwise.  On non-Windows platforms,  target_is_directory  is ignored.
This function can support   paths relative to directory descriptors  .
Note
On newer versions of Windows 10, unprivileged accounts can create symlinks
if Developer Mode is enabled. When Developer Mode is not available/enabled,
the  SeCreateSymbolicLinkPrivilege  privilege is required, or the process
must be run as an administrator.
OSError    is raised when the function is called by an unprivileged
user.
Raises an   auditing event     os.symlink   with arguments   src  ,   dst  ,   dir_fd  .
Availability  : Unix, Windows.
The function is limited on WASI, see   WebAssembly platforms   for more
information.
Changed in version 3.2:  Added support for Windows 6.0 (Vista) symbolic links.
Changed in version 3.3:  Added the  dir_fd  parameter, and now allow  target_is_directory
on non-Windows platforms.
Changed in version 3.6:  Accepts a   path-like object   for  src  and  dst .
Changed in version 3.8:  Added support for unelevated symlinks on Windows with Developer Mode.
os.    sync   (  )  ¶
Force write of everything to disk.
Availability  : Unix.
Added in version 3.3.
os.    truncate   (    path   ,    length    )  ¶
Truncate the file corresponding to  path , so that it is at most
length  bytes in size.
This function can support   specifying a file descriptor  .
Raises an   auditing event     os.truncate   with arguments   path  ,   length  .
Availability  : Unix, Windows.
Added in version 3.3.
Changed in version 3.5:  Added support for Windows
Changed in version 3.6:  Accepts a   path-like object  .
os.    unlink   (    path   ,     *    ,    dir_fd    =    None    )  ¶
Remove (delete) the file  path .  This function is semantically
identical to    remove()   ; the   unlink   name is its
traditional Unix name.  Please see the documentation for
remove()   for further information.
Raises an   auditing event     os.remove   with arguments   path  ,   dir_fd  .
Changed in version 3.3:  Added the  dir_fd  parameter.
Changed in version 3.6:  Accepts a   path-like object  .
os.    utime   (    path   ,    times=None   ,    *   ,  [    ns   ,  ]    dir_fd=None   ,    follow_symlinks=True    )  ¶
Set the access and modified times of the file specified by  path .
utime()   takes two optional parameters,  times  and  ns .
These specify the times set on  path  and are used as follows:
If  ns  is specified,
it must be a 2-tuple of the form   (atime_ns,   mtime_ns)
where each member is an int expressing nanoseconds.
If  times  is not   None  ,
it must be a 2-tuple of the form   (atime,   mtime)
where each member is an int or float expressing seconds.
If  times  is   None   and  ns  is unspecified,
this is equivalent to specifying   ns=(atime_ns,   mtime_ns)
where both times are the current time.
It is an error to specify tuples for both  times  and  ns .
Note that the exact times you set here may not be returned by a subsequent
stat()    call, depending on the resolution with which your operating
system records access and modification times; see   stat()  . The best
way to preserve exact times is to use the  st_atime_ns  and  st_mtime_ns
fields from the   os.stat()   result object with the  ns  parameter to
utime()  .
This function can support   specifying a file descriptor  ,
paths relative to directory descriptors   and   not
following symlinks  .
Raises an   auditing event     os.utime   with arguments   path  ,   times  ,   ns  ,   dir_fd  .
Changed in version 3.3:  Added support for specifying  path  as an open file descriptor,
and the  dir_fd ,  follow_symlinks , and  ns  parameters.
Changed in version 3.6:  Accepts a   path-like object  .
os.    walk   (    top   ,    topdown    =    True   ,    onerror    =    None   ,    followlinks    =    False    )  ¶
Generate the file names in a directory tree by walking the tree
either top-down or bottom-up. For each directory in the tree rooted at directory
top  (including  top  itself), it yields a 3-tuple   (dirpath,   dirnames,
filenames)  .
dirpath  is a string, the path to the directory.   dirnames  is a list of the
names of the subdirectories in  dirpath  (including symlinks to directories,
and excluding   '.'   and   '..'  ).
filenames  is a list of the names of the non-directory files in  dirpath .
Note that the names in the lists contain no path components.  To get a full path
(which begins with  top ) to a file or directory in  dirpath , do
os.path.join(dirpath,   name)  .  Whether or not the lists are sorted
depends on the file system.  If a file is removed from or added to the
dirpath  directory during generating the lists, whether a name for that
file be included is unspecified.
If optional argument  topdown  is   True   or not specified, the triple for a
directory is generated before the triples for any of its subdirectories
(directories are generated top-down).  If  topdown  is   False  , the triple
for a directory is generated after the triples for all of its subdirectories
(directories are generated bottom-up). No matter the value of  topdown , the
list of subdirectories is retrieved before the tuples for the directory and
its subdirectories are generated.
When  topdown  is   True  , the caller can modify the  dirnames  list in-place
(perhaps using    del    or slice assignment), and   walk()   will only
recurse into the subdirectories whose names remain in  dirnames ; this can be
used to prune the search, impose a specific order of visiting, or even to inform
walk()   about directories the caller creates or renames before it resumes
walk()   again.  Modifying  dirnames  when  topdown  is   False   has
no effect on the behavior of the walk, because in bottom-up mode the directories
in  dirnames  are generated before  dirpath  itself is generated.
By default, errors from the    scandir()    call are ignored.  If optional
argument  onerror  is specified, it should be a function; it will be called with
one argument, an    OSError    instance.  It can report the error to continue
with the walk, or raise the exception to abort the walk.  Note that the filename
is available as the   filename   attribute of the exception object.
By default,   walk()   will not walk down into symbolic links that resolve to
directories. Set  followlinks  to   True   to visit directories pointed to by
symlinks, on systems that support them.
Note
Be aware that setting  followlinks  to   True   can lead to infinite
recursion if a link points to a parent directory of itself.   walk()
does not keep track of the directories it visited already.
Note
If you pass a relative pathname, don’t change the current working directory
between resumptions of   walk()  .    walk()   never changes the current
directory, and assumes that its caller doesn’t either.
This example displays the number of bytes taken by non-directory files in each
directory under the starting directory, except that it doesn’t look under any
__pycache__   subdirectory:
import     os
from     os.path     import   join  ,   getsize
for   root  ,   dirs  ,   files   in   os  .  walk  (   python/Lib/xml   ):
print  (  root  ,    consumes   ,   end  =       )
print  (  sum  (  getsize  (  join  (  root  ,   name  ))   for   name   in   files  ),   end  =       )
print  (   bytes in   ,   len  (  files  ),    non-directory files   )
if    __pycache__    in   dirs  :
dirs  .  remove  (   __pycache__   )    # don t visit __pycache__ directories
In the next example (simple implementation of    shutil.rmtree()   ),
walking the tree bottom-up is essential,    rmdir()    doesn’t allow
deleting a directory before the directory is empty:
# Delete everything reachable from the directory named in  top ,
# assuming there are no symbolic links.
# CAUTION:  This is dangerous!  For example, if top ==  / , it
# could delete all your disk files.
import     os
for   root  ,   dirs  ,   files   in   os  .  walk  (  top  ,   topdown  =  False  ):
for   name   in   files  :
os  .  remove  (  os  .  path  .  join  (  root  ,   name  ))
for   name   in   dirs  :
os  .  rmdir  (  os  .  path  .  join  (  root  ,   name  ))
os  .  rmdir  (  top  )
Raises an   auditing event     os.walk   with arguments   top  ,   topdown  ,   onerror  ,   followlinks  .
Changed in version 3.5:  This function now calls    os.scandir()    instead of    os.listdir()   ,
making it faster by reducing the number of calls to    os.stat()   .
Changed in version 3.6:  Accepts a   path-like object  .
os.    fwalk   (    top    =    '.'   ,    topdown    =    True   ,    onerror    =    None   ,     *    ,    follow_symlinks    =    False   ,    dir_fd    =    None    )  ¶
This behaves exactly like    walk()   , except that it yields a 4-tuple
(dirpath,   dirnames,   filenames,   dirfd)  , and it supports   dir_fd  .
dirpath ,  dirnames  and  filenames  are identical to    walk()    output,
and  dirfd  is a file descriptor referring to the directory  dirpath .
This function always supports   paths relative to directory descriptors   and   not following symlinks  .  Note however
that, unlike other functions, the   fwalk()   default value for
follow_symlinks  is   False  .
Note
Since   fwalk()   yields file descriptors, those are only valid until
the next iteration step, so you should duplicate them (e.g. with
dup()   ) if you want to keep them longer.
This example displays the number of bytes taken by non-directory files in each
directory under the starting directory, except that it doesn’t look under any
__pycache__   subdirectory:
import     os
for   root  ,   dirs  ,   files  ,   rootfd   in   os  .  fwalk  (   python/Lib/xml   ):
print  (  root  ,    consumes   ,   end  =       )
print  (  sum  ([  os  .  stat  (  name  ,   dir_fd  =  rootfd  )  .  st_size   for   name   in   files  ]),
end  =       )
print  (   bytes in   ,   len  (  files  ),    non-directory files   )
if    __pycache__    in   dirs  :
dirs  .  remove  (   __pycache__   )    # don t visit __pycache__ directories
In the next example, walking the tree bottom-up is essential:
rmdir()    doesn’t allow deleting a directory before the directory is
empty:
# Delete everything reachable from the directory named in  top ,
# assuming there are no symbolic links.
# CAUTION:  This is dangerous!  For example, if top ==  / , it
# could delete all your disk files.
import     os
for   root  ,   dirs  ,   files  ,   rootfd   in   os  .  fwalk  (  top  ,   topdown  =  False  ):
for   name   in   files  :
os  .  unlink  (  name  ,   dir_fd  =  rootfd  )
for   name   in   dirs  :
os  .  rmdir  (  name  ,   dir_fd  =  rootfd  )
Raises an   auditing event     os.fwalk   with arguments   top  ,   topdown  ,   onerror  ,   follow_symlinks  ,   dir_fd  .
Availability  : Unix.
Added in version 3.3.
Changed in version 3.6:  Accepts a   path-like object  .
Changed in version 3.7:  Added support for    bytes    paths.
os.    memfd_create   (    name    [ ,    flags=os.MFD_CLOEXEC    ]  )  ¶
Create an anonymous file and return a file descriptor that refers to it.
flags  must be one of the   os.MFD_*   constants available on the system
(or a bitwise ORed combination of them).  By default, the new file
descriptor is   non-inheritable  .
The name supplied in  name  is used as a filename and will be displayed as
the target of the corresponding symbolic link in the directory
/proc/self/fd/  . The displayed name is always prefixed with   memfd:
and serves only for debugging purposes. Names do not affect the behavior of
the file descriptor, and as such multiple files can have the same name
without any side effects.
Availability  : Linux  = 3.17 with glibc  = 2.27.
Added in version 3.8.
os.    MFD_CLOEXEC   ¶
os.    MFD_ALLOW_SEALING   ¶
os.    MFD_HUGETLB   ¶
os.    MFD_HUGE_SHIFT   ¶
os.    MFD_HUGE_MASK   ¶
os.    MFD_HUGE_64KB   ¶
os.    MFD_HUGE_512KB   ¶
os.    MFD_HUGE_1MB   ¶
os.    MFD_HUGE_2MB   ¶
os.    MFD_HUGE_8MB   ¶
os.    MFD_HUGE_16MB   ¶
os.    MFD_HUGE_32MB   ¶
os.    MFD_HUGE_256MB   ¶
os.    MFD_HUGE_512MB   ¶
os.    MFD_HUGE_1GB   ¶
os.    MFD_HUGE_2GB   ¶
os.    MFD_HUGE_16GB   ¶
These flags can be passed to    memfd_create()   .
Availability  : Linux  = 3.17 with glibc  = 2.27
The   MFD_HUGE*   flags are only available since Linux 4.14.
Added in version 3.8.
os.    eventfd   (    initval    [ ,    flags=os.EFD_CLOEXEC    ]  )  ¶
Create and return an event file descriptor. The file descriptors supports
raw    read()    and    write()    with a buffer size of 8,
select()   ,    poll()    and similar. See man page
eventfd(2)   for more information.  By default, the
new file descriptor is   non-inheritable  .
initval  is the initial value of the event counter. The initial value
must be a 32 bit unsigned integer. Please note that the initial value is
limited to a 32 bit unsigned int although the event counter is an unsigned
64 bit integer with a maximum value of 2 64 -2.
flags  can be constructed from    EFD_CLOEXEC   ,
EFD_NONBLOCK   , and    EFD_SEMAPHORE   .
If    EFD_SEMAPHORE    is specified and the event counter is non-zero,
eventfd_read()    returns 1 and decrements the counter by one.
If    EFD_SEMAPHORE    is not specified and the event counter is
non-zero,    eventfd_read()    returns the current event counter value and
resets the counter to zero.
If the event counter is zero and    EFD_NONBLOCK    is not
specified,    eventfd_read()    blocks.
eventfd_write()    increments the event counter. Write blocks if the
write operation would increment the counter to a value larger than
2 64 -2.
Example:
import     os
# semaphore with start value  1
fd   =   os  .  eventfd  (  1  ,   os  .  EFD_SEMAPHORE   |   os  .  EFD_CLOEXEC  )
try  :
# acquire semaphore
v   =   os  .  eventfd_read  (  fd  )
try  :
do_work  ()
finally  :
# release semaphore
os  .  eventfd_write  (  fd  ,   v  )
finally  :
os  .  close  (  fd  )
Availability  : Linux  = 2.6.27 with glibc  = 2.8
Added in version 3.10.
os.    eventfd_read   (    fd    )  ¶
Read value from an    eventfd()    file descriptor and return a 64 bit
unsigned int. The function does not verify that  fd  is an   eventfd()  .
Availability  : Linux  = 2.6.27
Added in version 3.10.
os.    eventfd_write   (    fd   ,    value    )  ¶
Add value to an    eventfd()    file descriptor.  value  must be a 64 bit
unsigned int. The function does not verify that  fd  is an   eventfd()  .
Availability  : Linux  = 2.6.27
Added in version 3.10.
os.    EFD_CLOEXEC   ¶
Set close-on-exec flag for new    eventfd()    file descriptor.
Availability  : Linux  = 2.6.27
Added in version 3.10.
os.    EFD_NONBLOCK   ¶
Set    O_NONBLOCK    status flag for new    eventfd()    file
descriptor.
Availability  : Linux  = 2.6.27
Added in version 3.10.
os.    EFD_SEMAPHORE   ¶
Provide semaphore-like semantics for reads from an    eventfd()    file
descriptor. On read the internal counter is decremented by one.
Availability  : Linux  = 2.6.30
Added in version 3.10.
Timer File Descriptors ¶
Added in version 3.13.
These functions provide support for Linux’s  timer file descriptor  API.
Naturally, they are all only available on Linux.
os.    timerfd_create   (    clockid   ,     /    ,     *    ,    flags    =    0    )  ¶
Create and return a timer file descriptor ( timerfd ).
The file descriptor returned by   timerfd_create()   supports:
read()
select()
poll()
The file descriptor’s    read()    method can be called with a buffer size
of 8. If the timer has already expired one or more times,   read()
returns the number of expirations with the host’s endianness, which may be
converted to an    int    by   int.from_bytes(x,   byteorder=sys.byteorder)  .
select()    and    poll()    can be used to wait until
timer expires and the file descriptor is readable.
clockid  must be a valid   clock ID  ,
as defined in the    time    module:
time.CLOCK_REALTIME
time.CLOCK_MONOTONIC
time.CLOCK_BOOTTIME    (Since Linux 3.15 for timerfd_create)
If  clockid  is    time.CLOCK_REALTIME   , a settable system-wide
real-time clock is used. If system clock is changed, timer setting need
to be updated. To cancel timer when system clock is changed, see
TFD_TIMER_CANCEL_ON_SET   .
If  clockid  is    time.CLOCK_MONOTONIC   , a non-settable monotonically
increasing clock is used. Even if the system clock is changed, the timer
setting will not be affected.
If  clockid  is    time.CLOCK_BOOTTIME   , same as    time.CLOCK_MONOTONIC
except it includes any time that the system is suspended.
The file descriptor’s behaviour can be modified by specifying a  flags  value.
Any of the following variables may be used, combined using bitwise OR
(the   |   operator):
TFD_NONBLOCK
TFD_CLOEXEC
If    TFD_NONBLOCK    is not set as a flag,    read()    blocks until
the timer expires. If it is set as a flag,   read()   doesn’t block, but
If there hasn’t been an expiration since the last call to read,
read()   raises    OSError    with   errno   is set to
errno.EAGAIN   .
TFD_CLOEXEC    is always set by Python automatically.
The file descriptor must be closed with    os.close()    when it is no
longer needed, or else the file descriptor will be leaked.
See also
The   timerfd_create(2)   man page.
Availability  : Linux  = 2.6.27 with glibc  = 2.8
Added in version 3.13.
os.    timerfd_settime   (    fd   ,     /    ,     *    ,    flags    =    flags   ,    initial    =    0.0   ,    interval    =    0.0    )  ¶
Alter a timer file descriptor’s internal timer.
This function operates the same interval timer as    timerfd_settime_ns()   .
fd  must be a valid timer file descriptor.
The timer’s behaviour can be modified by specifying a  flags  value.
Any of the following variables may be used, combined using bitwise OR
(the   |   operator):
TFD_TIMER_ABSTIME
TFD_TIMER_CANCEL_ON_SET
The timer is disabled by setting  initial  to zero (  0  ).
If  initial  is equal to or greater than zero, the timer is enabled.
If  initial  is less than zero, it raises an    OSError    exception
with   errno   set to    errno.EINVAL
By default the timer will fire when  initial  seconds have elapsed.
(If  initial  is zero, timer will fire immediately.)
However, if the    TFD_TIMER_ABSTIME    flag is set,
the timer will fire when the timer’s clock
(set by  clockid  in    timerfd_create()   ) reaches  initial  seconds.
The timer’s interval is set by the  interval     float   .
If  interval  is zero, the timer only fires once, on the initial expiration.
If  interval  is greater than zero, the timer fires every time  interval
seconds have elapsed since the previous expiration.
If  interval  is less than zero, it raises    OSError    with   errno
set to    errno.EINVAL
If the    TFD_TIMER_CANCEL_ON_SET    flag is set along with
TFD_TIMER_ABSTIME    and the clock for this timer is
time.CLOCK_REALTIME   , the timer is marked as cancelable if the
real-time clock is changed discontinuously. Reading the descriptor is
aborted with the error ECANCELED.
Linux manages system clock as UTC. A daylight-savings time transition is
done by changing time offset only and doesn’t cause discontinuous system
clock change.
Discontinuous system clock change will be caused by the following events:
settimeofday
clock_settime
set the system date and time by   date   command
Return a two-item tuple of (  next_expiration  ,   interval  ) from
the previous timer state, before this function executed.
See also
timerfd_create(2)  ,   timerfd_settime(2)  ,
settimeofday(2)  ,   clock_settime(2)  ,
and   date(1)  .
Availability  : Linux  = 2.6.27 with glibc  = 2.8
Added in version 3.13.
os.    timerfd_settime_ns   (    fd   ,     /    ,     *    ,    flags    =    0   ,    initial    =    0   ,    interval    =    0    )  ¶
Similar to    timerfd_settime()   , but use time as nanoseconds.
This function operates the same interval timer as   timerfd_settime()  .
Availability  : Linux  = 2.6.27 with glibc  = 2.8
Added in version 3.13.
os.    timerfd_gettime   (    fd   ,     /     )  ¶
Return a two-item tuple of floats (  next_expiration  ,   interval  ).
next_expiration   denotes the relative time until the timer next fires,
regardless of if the    TFD_TIMER_ABSTIME    flag is set.
interval   denotes the timer’s interval.
If zero, the timer will only fire once, after   next_expiration   seconds
have elapsed.
See also
timerfd_gettime(2)
Availability  : Linux  = 2.6.27 with glibc  = 2.8
Added in version 3.13.
os.    timerfd_gettime_ns   (    fd   ,     /     )  ¶
Similar to    timerfd_gettime()   , but return time as nanoseconds.
Availability  : Linux  = 2.6.27 with glibc  = 2.8
Added in version 3.13.
os.    TFD_NONBLOCK   ¶
A flag for the    timerfd_create()    function,
which sets the    O_NONBLOCK    status flag for the new timer file
descriptor. If    TFD_NONBLOCK    is not set as a flag,    read()    blocks.
Availability  : Linux  = 2.6.27 with glibc  = 2.8
Added in version 3.13.
os.    TFD_CLOEXEC   ¶
A flag for the    timerfd_create()    function,
If    TFD_CLOEXEC    is set as a flag, set close-on-exec flag for new file
descriptor.
Availability  : Linux  = 2.6.27 with glibc  = 2.8
Added in version 3.13.
os.    TFD_TIMER_ABSTIME   ¶
A flag for the    timerfd_settime()    and    timerfd_settime_ns()    functions.
If this flag is set,  initial  is interpreted as an absolute value on the
timer’s clock (in UTC seconds or nanoseconds since the Unix Epoch).
Availability  : Linux  = 2.6.27 with glibc  = 2.8
Added in version 3.13.
os.    TFD_TIMER_CANCEL_ON_SET   ¶
A flag for the    timerfd_settime()    and    timerfd_settime_ns()
functions along with    TFD_TIMER_ABSTIME   .
The timer is cancelled when the time of the underlying clock changes
discontinuously.
Availability  : Linux  = 2.6.27 with glibc  = 2.8
Added in version 3.13.
Linux extended attributes ¶
Added in version 3.3.
These functions are all available on Linux only.
os.    getxattr   (    path   ,    attribute   ,     *    ,    follow_symlinks    =    True    )  ¶
Return the value of the extended filesystem attribute  attribute  for
path .  attribute  can be bytes or str (directly or indirectly through the
PathLike    interface). If it is str, it is encoded with the filesystem
encoding.
This function can support   specifying a file descriptor   and
not following symlinks  .
Raises an   auditing event     os.getxattr   with arguments   path  ,   attribute  .
Changed in version 3.6:  Accepts a   path-like object   for  path  and  attribute .
os.    listxattr   (    path    =    None   ,     *    ,    follow_symlinks    =    True    )  ¶
Return a list of the extended filesystem attributes on  path .  The
attributes in the list are represented as strings decoded with the filesystem
encoding.  If  path  is   None  ,   listxattr()   will examine the current
directory.
This function can support   specifying a file descriptor   and
not following symlinks  .
Raises an   auditing event     os.listxattr   with argument   path  .
Changed in version 3.6:  Accepts a   path-like object  .
os.    removexattr   (    path   ,    attribute   ,     *    ,    follow_symlinks    =    True    )  ¶
Removes the extended filesystem attribute  attribute  from  path .
attribute  should be bytes or str (directly or indirectly through the
PathLike    interface). If it is a string, it is encoded
with the   filesystem encoding and error handler  .
This function can support   specifying a file descriptor   and
not following symlinks  .
Raises an   auditing event     os.removexattr   with arguments   path  ,   attribute  .
Changed in version 3.6:  Accepts a   path-like object   for  path  and  attribute .
os.    setxattr   (    path   ,    attribute   ,    value   ,    flags    =    0   ,     *    ,    follow_symlinks    =    True    )  ¶
Set the extended filesystem attribute  attribute  on  path  to  value .
attribute  must be a bytes or str with no embedded NULs (directly or
indirectly through the    PathLike    interface). If it is a str,
it is encoded with the   filesystem encoding and error handler  .   flags  may be
XATTR_REPLACE    or    XATTR_CREATE   . If   XATTR_REPLACE   is
given and the attribute does not exist,   ENODATA   will be raised.
If   XATTR_CREATE   is given and the attribute already exists, the
attribute will not be created and   EEXISTS   will be raised.
This function can support   specifying a file descriptor   and
not following symlinks  .
Note
A bug in Linux kernel versions less than 2.6.39 caused the flags argument
to be ignored on some filesystems.
Raises an   auditing event     os.setxattr   with arguments   path  ,   attribute  ,   value  ,   flags  .
Changed in version 3.6:  Accepts a   path-like object   for  path  and  attribute .
os.    XATTR_SIZE_MAX   ¶
The maximum size the value of an extended attribute can be. Currently, this
is 64 KiB on Linux.
os.    XATTR_CREATE   ¶
This is a possible value for the flags argument in    setxattr()   . It
indicates the operation must create an attribute.
os.    XATTR_REPLACE   ¶
This is a possible value for the flags argument in    setxattr()   . It
indicates the operation must replace an existing attribute.
Process Management ¶
These functions may be used to create and manage processes.
The various    exec*    functions take a list of arguments for the new
program loaded into the process.  In each case, the first of these arguments is
passed to the new program as its own name rather than as an argument a user may
have typed on a command line.  For the C programmer, this is the   argv[0]
passed to a program’s   main()  .  For example,   os.execv('/bin/echo',
['foo',   'bar'])   will only print   bar   on standard output;   foo   will seem
to be ignored.
os.    abort   (  )  ¶
Generate a   SIGABRT   signal to the current process.  On Unix, the default
behavior is to produce a core dump; on Windows, the process immediately returns
an exit code of   3  .  Be aware that calling this function will not call the
Python signal handler registered for   SIGABRT   with
signal.signal()   .
os.    add_dll_directory   (    path    )  ¶
Add a path to the DLL search path.
This search path is used when resolving dependencies for imported
extension modules (the module itself is resolved through
sys.path   ), and also by    ctypes   .
Remove the directory by calling  close()  on the returned object
or using it in a    with    statement.
See the  Microsoft documentation
for more information about how DLLs are loaded.
Raises an   auditing event     os.add_dll_directory   with argument   path  .
Availability  : Windows.
Added in version 3.8:  Previous versions of CPython would resolve DLLs using the default
behavior for the current process. This led to inconsistencies,
such as only sometimes searching     PATH   or the current
working directory, and OS functions such as   AddDllDirectory
having no effect.
In 3.8, the two primary ways DLLs are loaded now explicitly
override the process-wide behavior to ensure consistency. See the
porting notes   for information on
updating libraries.
os.    execl   (    path   ,    arg0   ,    arg1   ,    ...    )  ¶
os.    execle   (    path   ,    arg0   ,    arg1   ,    ...   ,    env    )  ¶
os.    execlp   (    file   ,    arg0   ,    arg1   ,    ...    )  ¶
os.    execlpe   (    file   ,    arg0   ,    arg1   ,    ...   ,    env    )  ¶
os.    execv   (    path   ,    args    )  ¶
os.    execve   (    path   ,    args   ,    env    )  ¶
os.    execvp   (    file   ,    args    )  ¶
os.    execvpe   (    file   ,    args   ,    env    )  ¶
These functions all execute a new program, replacing the current process; they
do not return.  On Unix, the new executable is loaded into the current process,
and will have the same process id as the caller.  Errors will be reported as
OSError    exceptions.
The current process is replaced immediately. Open file objects and
descriptors are not flushed, so if there may be data buffered
on these open files, you should flush them using
flush()    or    os.fsync()    before calling an
exec*   function.
The “l” and “v” variants of the   exec*   functions differ in how
command-line arguments are passed.  The “l” variants are perhaps the easiest
to work with if the number of parameters is fixed when the code is written; the
individual parameters simply become additional parameters to the   execl*()
functions.  The “v” variants are good when the number of parameters is
variable, with the arguments being passed in a list or tuple as the  args
parameter.  In either case, the arguments to the child process should start with
the name of the command being run, but this is not enforced.
The variants which include a “p” near the end (  execlp()  ,
execlpe()  ,   execvp()  , and   execvpe()  ) will use the
PATH   environment variable to locate the program  file .  When the
environment is being replaced (using one of the   exec*e   variants,
discussed in the next paragraph), the new environment is used as the source of
the     PATH   variable. The other variants,   execl()  ,   execle()  ,
execv()  , and   execve()  , will not use the     PATH   variable to
locate the executable;  path  must contain an appropriate absolute or relative
path. Relative paths must include at least one slash, even on Windows, as
plain names will not be resolved.
For   execle()  ,   execlpe()  ,   execve()  , and   execvpe()   (note
that these all end in “e”), the  env  parameter must be a mapping which is
used to define the environment variables for the new process (these are used
instead of the current process’ environment); the functions   execl()  ,
execlp()  ,   execv()  , and   execvp()   all cause the new process to
inherit the environment of the current process.
For   execve()   on some platforms,  path  may also be specified as an open
file descriptor.  This functionality may not be supported on your platform;
you can check whether or not it is available using    os.supports_fd   .
If it is unavailable, using it will raise a    NotImplementedError   .
Raises an   auditing event     os.exec   with arguments   path  ,   args  ,   env  .
Availability  : Unix, Windows, not WASI, not Android, not iOS.
Changed in version 3.3:  Added support for specifying  path  as an open file descriptor
for   execve()  .
Changed in version 3.6:  Accepts a   path-like object  .
os.    _exit   (    n    )  ¶
Exit the process with status  n , without calling cleanup handlers, flushing
stdio buffers, etc.
Note
The standard way to exit is    sys.exit(n)   .    _exit()   should
normally only be used in the child process after a    fork()   .
The following exit codes are defined and can be used with    _exit()   ,
although they are not required.  These are typically used for system programs
written in Python, such as a mail server’s external command delivery program.
Note
Some of these may not be available on all Unix platforms, since there is some
variation.  These constants are defined where they are defined by the underlying
platform.
os.    EX_OK   ¶
Exit code that means no error occurred. May be taken from the defined value of
EXIT_SUCCESS   on some platforms. Generally has a value of zero.
Availability  : Unix, Windows.
os.    EX_USAGE   ¶
Exit code that means the command was used incorrectly, such as when the wrong
number of arguments are given.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
os.    EX_DATAERR   ¶
Exit code that means the input data was incorrect.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
os.    EX_NOINPUT   ¶
Exit code that means an input file did not exist or was not readable.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
os.    EX_NOUSER   ¶
Exit code that means a specified user did not exist.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
os.    EX_NOHOST   ¶
Exit code that means a specified host did not exist.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
os.    EX_UNAVAILABLE   ¶
Exit code that means that a required service is unavailable.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
os.    EX_SOFTWARE   ¶
Exit code that means an internal software error was detected.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
os.    EX_OSERR   ¶
Exit code that means an operating system error was detected, such as the
inability to fork or create a pipe.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
os.    EX_OSFILE   ¶
Exit code that means some system file did not exist, could not be opened, or had
some other kind of error.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
os.    EX_CANTCREAT   ¶
Exit code that means a user specified output file could not be created.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
os.    EX_IOERR   ¶
Exit code that means that an error occurred while doing I/O on some file.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
os.    EX_TEMPFAIL   ¶
Exit code that means a temporary failure occurred.  This indicates something
that may not really be an error, such as a network connection that couldn’t be
made during a retryable operation.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
os.    EX_PROTOCOL   ¶
Exit code that means that a protocol exchange was illegal, invalid, or not
understood.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
os.    EX_NOPERM   ¶
Exit code that means that there were insufficient permissions to perform the
operation (but not intended for file system problems).
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
os.    EX_CONFIG   ¶
Exit code that means that some kind of configuration error occurred.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
os.    EX_NOTFOUND   ¶
Exit code that means something like “an entry was not found”.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
os.    fork   (  )  ¶
Fork a child process.  Return   0   in the child and the child’s process id in the
parent.  If an error occurs    OSError    is raised.
Note that some platforms including FreeBSD  = 6.3 and Cygwin have
known issues when using   fork()   from a thread.
Raises an   auditing event     os.fork   with no arguments.
Warning
If you use TLS sockets in an application calling   fork()  , see
the warning in the    ssl    documentation.
Warning
On macOS the use of this function is unsafe when mixed with using
higher-level system APIs, and that includes using    urllib.request   .
Changed in version 3.8:  Calling   fork()   in a subinterpreter is no longer supported
(   RuntimeError    is raised).
Changed in version 3.12:  If Python is able to detect that your process has multiple
threads,    os.fork()    now raises a    DeprecationWarning   .
We chose to surface this as a warning, when detectable, to better
inform developers of a design problem that the POSIX platform
specifically notes as not supported. Even in code that
appears  to work, it has never been safe to mix threading with
os.fork()    on POSIX platforms. The CPython runtime itself has
always made API calls that are not safe for use in the child
process when threads existed in the parent (such as   malloc   and
free  ).
Users of macOS or users of libc or malloc implementations other
than those typically found in glibc to date are among those
already more likely to experience deadlocks running such code.
See  this discussion on fork being incompatible with threads
for technical details of why we’re surfacing this longstanding
platform compatibility problem to developers.
Availability  : POSIX, not WASI, not Android, not iOS.
os.    forkpty   (  )  ¶
Fork a child process, using a new pseudo-terminal as the child’s controlling
terminal. Return a pair of   (pid,   fd)  , where  pid  is   0   in the child, the
new child’s process id in the parent, and  fd  is the file descriptor of the
master end of the pseudo-terminal.  For a more portable approach, use the
pty    module.  If an error occurs    OSError    is raised.
Raises an   auditing event     os.forkpty   with no arguments.
Warning
On macOS the use of this function is unsafe when mixed with using
higher-level system APIs, and that includes using    urllib.request   .
Changed in version 3.8:  Calling   forkpty()   in a subinterpreter is no longer supported
(   RuntimeError    is raised).
Changed in version 3.12:  If Python is able to detect that your process has multiple
threads, this now raises a    DeprecationWarning   . See the
longer explanation on    os.fork()   .
Availability  : Unix, not WASI, not Android, not iOS.
os.    kill   (    pid   ,    sig   ,     /     )  ¶
Send signal  sig  to the process  pid .  Constants for the specific signals
available on the host platform are defined in the    signal    module.
Windows: The    signal.CTRL_C_EVENT    and
signal.CTRL_BREAK_EVENT    signals are special signals which can
only be sent to console processes which share a common console window,
e.g., some subprocesses. Any other value for  sig  will cause the process
to be unconditionally killed by the TerminateProcess API, and the exit code
will be set to  sig .
See also    signal.pthread_kill()   .
Raises an   auditing event     os.kill   with arguments   pid  ,   sig  .
Availability  : Unix, Windows, not WASI, not iOS.
Changed in version 3.2:  Added Windows support.
os.    killpg   (    pgid   ,    sig   ,     /     )  ¶
Send the signal  sig  to the process group  pgid .
Raises an   auditing event     os.killpg   with arguments   pgid  ,   sig  .
Availability  : Unix, not WASI, not iOS.
os.    nice   (    increment   ,     /     )  ¶
Add  increment  to the process’s “niceness”.  Return the new niceness.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI.
os.    pidfd_open   (    pid   ,    flags    =    0    )  ¶
Return a file descriptor referring to the process  pid  with  flags  set.
This descriptor can be used to perform process management without races
and signals.
See the   pidfd_open(2)   man page for more details.
Availability  : Linux  = 5.3, Android  =    build-time    API level 31
Added in version 3.9.
os.    PIDFD_NONBLOCK   ¶
This flag indicates that the file descriptor will be non-blocking.
If the process referred to by the file descriptor has not yet terminated,
then an attempt to wait on the file descriptor using   waitid(2)
will immediately return the error    EAGAIN    rather than blocking.
Availability  : Linux  = 5.10
Added in version 3.12.
os.    plock   (    op   ,     /     )  ¶
Lock program segments into memory.  The value of  op  (defined in
sys/lock.h   ) determines which segments are locked.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI, not iOS.
os.    popen   (    cmd   ,    mode    =    'r'   ,    buffering    =    -1    )  ¶
Open a pipe to or from command  cmd .
The return value is an open file object
connected to the pipe, which can be read or written depending on whether  mode
is   'r'   (default) or   'w'  .
The  buffering  argument have the same meaning as
the corresponding argument to the built-in    open()    function. The
returned file object reads or writes text strings rather than bytes.
The   close   method returns    None    if the subprocess exited
successfully, or the subprocess’s return code if there was an
error. On POSIX systems, if the return code is positive it
represents the return value of the process left-shifted by one
byte.  If the return code is negative, the process was terminated
by the signal given by the negated value of the return code.  (For
example, the return value might be   -   signal.SIGKILL   if the
subprocess was killed.)  On Windows systems, the return value
contains the signed integer return code from the child process.
On Unix,    waitstatus_to_exitcode()    can be used to convert the   close
method result (exit status) into an exit code if it is not   None  . On
Windows, the   close   method result is directly the exit code
(or   None  ).
This is implemented using    subprocess.Popen   ; see that class’s
documentation for more powerful ways to manage and communicate with
subprocesses.
Availability  : not WASI, not Android, not iOS.
Note
The   Python UTF-8 Mode   affects encodings used
for  cmd  and pipe contents.
popen()   is a simple wrapper around    subprocess.Popen   .
Use   subprocess.Popen   or    subprocess.run()    to
control options like encodings.
Soft deprecated  since version 3.14:  The    subprocess    module is recommended instead.
os.    posix_spawn   (    path   ,    argv   ,    env   ,     *    ,    file_actions    =    None   ,    setpgroup    =    None   ,    resetids    =    False   ,    setsid    =    False   ,    setsigmask    =    ()   ,    setsigdef    =    ()   ,    scheduler    =    None    )  ¶
Wraps the   posix_spawn()   C library API for use from Python.
Most users should use    subprocess.run()    instead of   posix_spawn()  .
The positional-only arguments  path ,  args , and  env  are similar to
execve()   .  env  is allowed to be   None  , in which case current
process’ environment is used.
The  path  parameter is the path to the executable file.  The  path  should
contain a directory.  Use    posix_spawnp()    to pass an executable file
without directory.
The  file_actions  argument may be a sequence of tuples describing actions
to take on specific file descriptors in the child process between the C
library implementation’s   fork()   and   exec()   steps.
The first item in each tuple must be one of the three type indicator
listed below describing the remaining tuple elements:
os.    POSIX_SPAWN_OPEN   ¶
(  os.POSIX_SPAWN_OPEN  ,  fd ,  path ,  flags ,  mode )
Performs   os.dup2(os.open(path,   flags,   mode),   fd)  .
os.    POSIX_SPAWN_CLOSE   ¶
(  os.POSIX_SPAWN_CLOSE  ,  fd )
Performs   os.close(fd)  .
os.    POSIX_SPAWN_DUP2   ¶
(  os.POSIX_SPAWN_DUP2  ,  fd ,  new_fd )
Performs   os.dup2(fd,   new_fd)  .
os.    POSIX_SPAWN_CLOSEFROM   ¶
(  os.POSIX_SPAWN_CLOSEFROM  ,  fd )
Performs   os.closerange(fd,   INF)  .
These tuples correspond to the C library
posix_spawn_file_actions_addopen()  ,
posix_spawn_file_actions_addclose()  ,
posix_spawn_file_actions_adddup2()  , and
posix_spawn_file_actions_addclosefrom_np()   API calls used to prepare
for the   posix_spawn()   call itself.
The  setpgroup  argument will set the process group of the child to the value
specified. If the value specified is 0, the child’s process group ID will be
made the same as its process ID. If the value of  setpgroup  is not set, the
child will inherit the parent’s process group ID. This argument corresponds
to the C library   POSIX_SPAWN_SETPGROUP   flag.
If the  resetids  argument is   True   it will reset the effective UID and
GID of the child to the real UID and GID of the parent process. If the
argument is   False  , then the child retains the effective UID and GID of
the parent. In either case, if the set-user-ID and set-group-ID permission
bits are enabled on the executable file, their effect will override the
setting of the effective UID and GID. This argument corresponds to the C
library   POSIX_SPAWN_RESETIDS   flag.
If the  setsid  argument is   True  , it will create a new session ID
for   posix_spawn  .  setsid  requires   POSIX_SPAWN_SETSID
or   POSIX_SPAWN_SETSID_NP   flag. Otherwise,    NotImplementedError
is raised.
The  setsigmask  argument will set the signal mask to the signal set
specified. If the parameter is not used, then the child inherits the
parent’s signal mask. This argument corresponds to the C library
POSIX_SPAWN_SETSIGMASK   flag.
The  sigdef  argument will reset the disposition of all signals in the set
specified. This argument corresponds to the C library
POSIX_SPAWN_SETSIGDEF   flag.
The  scheduler  argument must be a tuple containing the (optional) scheduler
policy and an instance of    sched_param    with the scheduler parameters.
A value of   None   in the place of the scheduler policy indicates that is
not being provided. This argument is a combination of the C library
POSIX_SPAWN_SETSCHEDPARAM   and   POSIX_SPAWN_SETSCHEDULER
flags.
Raises an   auditing event     os.posix_spawn   with arguments   path  ,   argv  ,   env  .
Added in version 3.8.
Changed in version 3.13:   env  parameter accepts   None  .
os.POSIX_SPAWN_CLOSEFROM   is available on platforms where
posix_spawn_file_actions_addclosefrom_np()   exists.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI, not Android, not iOS.
os.    posix_spawnp   (    path   ,    argv   ,    env   ,     *    ,    file_actions    =    None   ,    setpgroup    =    None   ,    resetids    =    False   ,    setsid    =    False   ,    setsigmask    =    ()   ,    setsigdef    =    ()   ,    scheduler    =    None    )  ¶
Wraps the   posix_spawnp()   C library API for use from Python.
Similar to    posix_spawn()    except that the system searches
for the  executable  file in the list of directories specified by the
PATH   environment variable (in the same way as for   execvp(3)  ).
Raises an   auditing event     os.posix_spawn   with arguments   path  ,   argv  ,   env  .
Added in version 3.8.
Availability  : POSIX, not WASI, not Android, not iOS.
See    posix_spawn()    documentation.
os.    register_at_fork   (     *    ,    before    =    None   ,    after_in_parent    =    None   ,    after_in_child    =    None    )  ¶
Register callables to be executed when a new child process is forked
using    os.fork()    or similar process cloning APIs.
The parameters are optional and keyword-only.
Each specifies a different call point.
before  is a function called before forking a child process.
after_in_parent  is a function called from the parent process
after forking a child process.
after_in_child  is a function called from the child process.
These calls are only made if control is expected to return to the
Python interpreter.  A typical    subprocess    launch will not
trigger them as the child is not going to re-enter the interpreter.
Functions registered for execution before forking are called in
reverse registration order.  Functions registered for execution
after forking (either in the parent or in the child) are called
in registration order.
Note that   fork()   calls made by third-party C code may not
call those functions, unless it explicitly calls    PyOS_BeforeFork()   ,
PyOS_AfterFork_Parent()    and    PyOS_AfterFork_Child()   .
There is no way to unregister a function.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI, not Android, not iOS.
Added in version 3.7.
os.    spawnl   (    mode   ,    path   ,    ...    )  ¶
os.    spawnle   (    mode   ,    path   ,    ...   ,    env    )  ¶
os.    spawnlp   (    mode   ,    file   ,    ...    )  ¶
os.    spawnlpe   (    mode   ,    file   ,    ...   ,    env    )  ¶
os.    spawnv   (    mode   ,    path   ,    args    )  ¶
os.    spawnve   (    mode   ,    path   ,    args   ,    env    )  ¶
os.    spawnvp   (    mode   ,    file   ,    args    )  ¶
os.    spawnvpe   (    mode   ,    file   ,    args   ,    env    )  ¶
Execute the program  path  in a new process.
(Note that the    subprocess    module provides more powerful facilities for
spawning new processes and retrieving their results; using that module is
preferable to using these functions.  Check especially the
Replacing Older Functions with the subprocess Module   section.)
If  mode  is    P_NOWAIT   , this function returns the process id of the new
process; if  mode  is    P_WAIT   , returns the process’s exit code if it
exits normally, or   -signal  , where  signal  is the signal that killed the
process.  On Windows, the process id will actually be the process handle, so can
be used with the    waitpid()    function.
Note on VxWorks, this function doesn’t return   -signal   when the new process is
killed. Instead it raises OSError exception.
The “l” and “v” variants of the   spawn*   functions differ in how
command-line arguments are passed.  The “l” variants are perhaps the easiest
to work with if the number of parameters is fixed when the code is written; the
individual parameters simply become additional parameters to the
spawnl*()   functions.  The “v” variants are good when the number of
parameters is variable, with the arguments being passed in a list or tuple as
the  args  parameter.  In either case, the arguments to the child process must
start with the name of the command being run.
The variants which include a second “p” near the end (  spawnlp()  ,
spawnlpe()  ,   spawnvp()  , and   spawnvpe()  ) will use the
PATH   environment variable to locate the program  file .  When the
environment is being replaced (using one of the   spawn*e   variants,
discussed in the next paragraph), the new environment is used as the source of
the     PATH   variable.  The other variants,   spawnl()  ,
spawnle()  ,   spawnv()  , and   spawnve()  , will not use the
PATH   variable to locate the executable;  path  must contain an
appropriate absolute or relative path.
For   spawnle()  ,   spawnlpe()  ,   spawnve()  , and   spawnvpe()
(note that these all end in “e”), the  env  parameter must be a mapping
which is used to define the environment variables for the new process (they are
used instead of the current process’ environment); the functions
spawnl()  ,   spawnlp()  ,   spawnv()  , and   spawnvp()   all cause
the new process to inherit the environment of the current process.  Note that
keys and values in the  env  dictionary must be strings; invalid keys or
values will cause the function to fail, with a return value of   127  .
As an example, the following calls to   spawnlp()   and   spawnvpe()   are
equivalent:
import     os
os  .  spawnlp  (  os  .  P_WAIT  ,    cp   ,    cp   ,    index.html   ,    /dev/null   )
L   =   [   cp   ,    index.html   ,    /dev/null   ]
os  .  spawnvpe  (  os  .  P_WAIT  ,    cp   ,   L  ,   os  .  environ  )
Raises an   auditing event     os.spawn   with arguments   mode  ,   path  ,   args  ,   env  .
Availability  : Unix, Windows, not WASI, not Android, not iOS.
spawnlp()  ,   spawnlpe()  ,   spawnvp()
and   spawnvpe()   are not available on Windows.    spawnle()   and
spawnve()   are not thread-safe on Windows; we advise you to use the
subprocess    module instead.
Changed in version 3.6:  Accepts a   path-like object  .
Soft deprecated  since version 3.14:  The    subprocess    module is recommended instead.
os.    P_NOWAIT   ¶
os.    P_NOWAITO   ¶
Possible values for the  mode  parameter to the    spawn*    family of
functions.  If either of these values is given, the   spawn*   functions
will return as soon as the new process has been created, with the process id as
the return value.
Availability  : Unix, Windows.
os.    P_WAIT   ¶
Possible value for the  mode  parameter to the    spawn*    family of
functions.  If this is given as  mode , the   spawn*   functions will not
return until the new process has run to completion and will return the exit code
of the process the run is successful, or   -signal   if a signal kills the
process.
Availability  : Unix, Windows.
os.    P_DETACH   ¶
os.    P_OVERLAY   ¶
Possible values for the  mode  parameter to the    spawn*    family of
functions.  These are less portable than those listed above.    P_DETACH
is similar to    P_NOWAIT   , but the new process is detached from the
console of the calling process. If    P_OVERLAY    is used, the current
process will be replaced; the   spawn*   function will not return.
Availability  : Windows.
os.    startfile   (    path    [ ,    operation    ]  [ ,    arguments    ]  [ ,    cwd    ]  [ ,    show_cmd    ]  )  ¶
Start a file with its associated application.
When  operation  is not specified, this acts like double-clicking
the file in Windows Explorer, or giving the file name as an argument to the
start  command from the interactive command shell: the file is opened
with whatever application (if any) its extension is associated.
When another  operation  is given, it must be a “command verb” that specifies
what should be done with the file. Common verbs documented by Microsoft are   'open'  ,
'print'   and    'edit'   (to be used on files) as well as   'explore'   and
'find'   (to be used on directories).
When launching an application, specify  arguments  to be passed as a single
string. This argument may have no effect when using this function to launch a
document.
The default working directory is inherited, but may be overridden by the  cwd
argument. This should be an absolute path. A relative  path  will be resolved
against this argument.
Use  show_cmd  to override the default window style. Whether this has any
effect will depend on the application being launched. Values are integers as
supported by the Win32   ShellExecute()   function.
startfile()   returns as soon as the associated application is launched.
There is no option to wait for the application to close, and no way to retrieve
the application’s exit status.  The  path  parameter is relative to the current
directory or  cwd .  If you want to use an absolute path, make sure the first
character is not a slash (  '/'  )  Use    pathlib    or the
os.path.normpath()    function to ensure that paths are properly encoded for
Win32.
To reduce interpreter startup overhead, the Win32   ShellExecute()
function is not resolved until this function is first called.  If the function
cannot be resolved,    NotImplementedError    will be raised.
Raises an   auditing event     os.startfile   with arguments   path  ,   operation  .
Raises an   auditing event     os.startfile/2   with arguments   path  ,   operation  ,   arguments  ,   cwd  ,   show_cmd  .
Availability  : Windows.
Changed in version 3.10:  Added the  arguments ,  cwd  and  show_cmd  arguments, and the
os.startfile/2   audit event.
os.    system   (    command    )  ¶
Execute the command (a string) in a subshell.  This is implemented by calling
the Standard C function   system()  , and has the same limitations.
Changes to    sys.stdin   , etc. are not reflected in the environment of
the executed command. If  command  generates any output, it will be sent to
the interpreter standard output stream. The C standard does not
specify the meaning of the return value of the C function, so the return
value of the Python function is system-dependent.
On Unix, the return value is the exit status of the process encoded in the
format specified for    wait()   .
On Windows, the return value is that returned by the system shell after
running  command .  The shell is given by the Windows environment variable
COMSPEC  : it is usually  cmd.exe , which returns the exit
status of the command run; on systems using a non-native shell, consult your
shell documentation.
The    subprocess    module provides more powerful facilities for spawning
new processes and retrieving their results; using that module is recommended
to using this function.  See the   Replacing Older Functions with the subprocess Module   section in
the   subprocess   documentation for some helpful recipes.
On Unix,    waitstatus_to_exitcode()    can be used to convert the result
(exit status) into an exit code. On Windows, the result is directly the exit
code.
Raises an   auditing event     os.system   with argument   command  .
Availability  : Unix, Windows, not WASI, not Android, not iOS.
os.    times   (  )  ¶
Returns the current global process times.
The return value is an object with five attributes:
user   - user time
system   - system time
children_user   - user time of all child processes
children_system   - system time of all child processes
elapsed   - elapsed real time since a fixed point in the past
For backwards compatibility, this object also behaves like a five-tuple
containing   user  ,   system  ,   children_user  ,
children_system  , and   elapsed   in that order.
See the Unix manual page
times(2)   and  times(3)  manual page on Unix or  the GetProcessTimes MSDN
on Windows. On Windows, only   user   and   system   are known; the other attributes are zero.
Availability  : Unix, Windows.
Changed in version 3.3:  Return type changed from a tuple to a tuple-like object
with named attributes.
os.    wait   (  )  ¶
Wait for completion of a child process, and return a tuple containing its pid
and exit status indication: a 16-bit number, whose low byte is the signal number
that killed the process, and whose high byte is the exit status (if the signal
number is zero); the high bit of the low byte is set if a core file was
produced.
If there are no children that could be waited for,    ChildProcessError
is raised.
waitstatus_to_exitcode()    can be used to convert the exit status into an
exit code.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI, not Android, not iOS.
See also
The other   wait*()   functions documented below can be used to wait for the
completion of a specific child process and have more options.
waitpid()    is the only one also available on Windows.
os.    waitid   (    idtype   ,    id   ,    options   ,     /     )  ¶
Wait for the completion of a child process.
idtype  can be    P_PID   ,    P_PGID   ,    P_ALL   , or (on Linux)    P_PIDFD   .
The interpretation of  id  depends on it; see their individual descriptions.
options  is an OR combination of flags.  At least one of    WEXITED   ,
WSTOPPED    or    WCONTINUED    is required;
WNOHANG    and    WNOWAIT    are additional optional flags.
The return value is an object representing the data contained in the
siginfo_t   structure with the following attributes:
si_pid   (process ID)
si_uid   (real user ID of the child)
si_signo   (always    SIGCHLD   )
si_status   (the exit status or signal number, depending on   si_code  )
si_code   (see    CLD_EXITED    for possible values)
If    WNOHANG    is specified and there are no matching children in the
requested state,   None   is returned.
Otherwise, if there are no matching children
that could be waited for,    ChildProcessError    is raised.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI, not Android, not iOS.
Added in version 3.3.
Changed in version 3.13:  This function is now available on macOS as well.
os.    waitpid   (    pid   ,    options   ,     /     )  ¶
The details of this function differ on Unix and Windows.
On Unix: Wait for completion of a child process given by process id  pid , and
return a tuple containing its process id and exit status indication (encoded as
for    wait()   ).  The semantics of the call are affected by the value of the
integer  options , which should be   0   for normal operation.
If  pid  is greater than   0  ,   waitpid()   requests status information for
that specific process.  If  pid  is   0  , the request is for the status of any
child in the process group of the current process.  If  pid  is   -1  , the
request pertains to any child of the current process.  If  pid  is less than
-1  , status is requested for any process in the process group   -pid   (the
absolute value of  pid ).
options  is an OR combination of flags.  If it contains    WNOHANG    and
there are no matching children in the requested state,   (0,   0)   is
returned.  Otherwise, if there are no matching children that could be waited
for,    ChildProcessError    is raised.  Other options that can be used are
WUNTRACED    and    WCONTINUED   .
On Windows: Wait for completion of a process given by process handle  pid , and
return a tuple containing  pid , and its exit status shifted left by 8 bits
(shifting makes cross-platform use of the function easier). A  pid  less than or
equal to   0   has no special meaning on Windows, and raises an exception. The
value of integer  options  has no effect.  pid  can refer to any process whose
id is known, not necessarily a child process. The    spawn*
functions called with    P_NOWAIT    return suitable process handles.
waitstatus_to_exitcode()    can be used to convert the exit status into an
exit code.
Availability  : Unix, Windows, not WASI, not Android, not iOS.
Changed in version 3.5:  If the system call is interrupted and the signal handler does not raise an
exception, the function now retries the system call instead of raising an
InterruptedError    exception (see     PEP 475   for the rationale).
os.    wait3   (    options    )  ¶
Similar to    waitpid()   , except no process id argument is given and a
3-element tuple containing the child’s process id, exit status indication,
and resource usage information is returned.  Refer to
resource.getrusage()    for details on resource usage information.  The
options  argument is the same as that provided to   waitpid()   and
wait4()   .
waitstatus_to_exitcode()    can be used to convert the exit status into an
exitcode.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI, not Android, not iOS.
os.    wait4   (    pid   ,    options    )  ¶
Similar to    waitpid()   , except a 3-element tuple, containing the child’s
process id, exit status indication, and resource usage information is
returned.  Refer to    resource.getrusage()    for details on resource usage
information.  The arguments to   wait4()   are the same as those provided
to   waitpid()  .
waitstatus_to_exitcode()    can be used to convert the exit status into an
exitcode.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI, not Android, not iOS.
os.    P_PID   ¶
os.    P_PGID   ¶
os.    P_ALL   ¶
os.    P_PIDFD   ¶
These are the possible values for  idtype  in    waitid()   . They affect
how  id  is interpreted:
P_PID   - wait for the child whose PID is  id .
P_PGID   - wait for any child whose progress group ID is  id .
P_ALL   - wait for any child;  id  is ignored.
P_PIDFD   - wait for the child identified by the file descriptor
id  (a process file descriptor created with    pidfd_open()   ).
Availability  : Unix, not WASI, not Android, not iOS.
Note
P_PIDFD   is only available on Linux  = 5.4.
Added in version 3.3.
Added in version 3.9:  The   P_PIDFD   constant.
os.    WCONTINUED   ¶
This  options  flag for    waitpid()   ,    wait3()   ,    wait4()   , and
waitid()    causes child processes to be reported if they have been
continued from a job control stop since they were last reported.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI, not Android, not iOS.
os.    WEXITED   ¶
This  options  flag for    waitid()    causes child processes that have terminated to
be reported.
The other   wait*   functions always report children that have terminated,
so this option is not available for them.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI, not Android, not iOS.
Added in version 3.3.
os.    WSTOPPED   ¶
This  options  flag for    waitid()    causes child processes that have been stopped
by the delivery of a signal to be reported.
This option is not available for the other   wait*   functions.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI, not Android, not iOS.
Added in version 3.3.
os.    WUNTRACED   ¶
This  options  flag for    waitpid()   ,    wait3()   , and    wait4()    causes
child processes to also be reported if they have been stopped but their
current state has not been reported since they were stopped.
This option is not available for    waitid()   .
Availability  : Unix, not WASI, not Android, not iOS.
os.    WNOHANG   ¶
This  options  flag causes    waitpid()   ,    wait3()   ,    wait4()   , and
waitid()    to return right away if no child process status is available
immediately.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI, not Android, not iOS.
os.    WNOWAIT   ¶
This  options  flag causes    waitid()    to leave the child in a waitable state, so that
a later   wait*()   call can be used to retrieve the child status information again.
This option is not available for the other   wait*   functions.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI, not Android, not iOS.
os.    CLD_EXITED   ¶
os.    CLD_KILLED   ¶
os.    CLD_DUMPED   ¶
os.    CLD_TRAPPED   ¶
os.    CLD_STOPPED   ¶
os.    CLD_CONTINUED   ¶
These are the possible values for   si_code   in the result returned by
waitid()   .
Availability  : Unix, not WASI, not Android, not iOS.
Added in version 3.3.
Changed in version 3.9:  Added   CLD_KILLED   and   CLD_STOPPED   values.
os.    waitstatus_to_exitcode   (    status    )  ¶
Convert a wait status to an exit code.
On Unix:
If the process exited normally (if   WIFEXITED(status)   is true),
return the process exit status (return   WEXITSTATUS(status)  ):
result greater than or equal to 0.
If the process was terminated by a signal (if   WIFSIGNALED(status)   is
true), return   -signum   where  signum  is the number of the signal that
caused the process to terminate (return   -WTERMSIG(status)  ):
result less than 0.
Otherwise, raise a    ValueError   .
On Windows, return  status  shifted right by 8 bits.
On Unix, if the process is being traced or if    waitpid()    was called
with    WUNTRACED    option, the caller must first check if
WIFSTOPPED(status)   is true. This function must not be called if
WIFSTOPPED(status)   is true.
See also
WIFEXITED()   ,    WEXITSTATUS()   ,    WIFSIGNALED()   ,
WTERMSIG()   ,    WIFSTOPPED()   ,    WSTOPSIG()    functions.
Availability  : Unix, Windows, not WASI, not Android, not iOS.
Added in version 3.9.
The following functions take a process status code as returned by
system()   ,    wait()   , or    waitpid()    as a parameter.  They may be
used to determine the disposition of a process.
os.    WCOREDUMP   (    status   ,     /     )  ¶
Return   True   if a core dump was generated for the process, otherwise
return   False  .
This function should be employed only if    WIFSIGNALED()    is true.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI, not Android, not iOS.
os.    WIFCONTINUED   (    status    )  ¶
Return   True   if a stopped child has been resumed by delivery of
SIGCONT    (if the process has been continued from a job
control stop), otherwise return   False  .
See    WCONTINUED    option.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI, not Android, not iOS.
os.    WIFSTOPPED   (    status    )  ¶
Return   True   if the process was stopped by delivery of a signal,
otherwise return   False  .
WIFSTOPPED()   only returns   True   if the    waitpid()    call was
done using    WUNTRACED    option or when the process is being traced (see
ptrace(2)  ).
Availability  : Unix, not WASI, not Android, not iOS.
os.    WIFSIGNALED   (    status    )  ¶
Return   True   if the process was terminated by a signal, otherwise return
False  .
Availability  : Unix, not WASI, not Android, not iOS.
os.    WIFEXITED   (    status    )  ¶
Return   True   if the process exited terminated normally, that is,
by calling   exit()   or   _exit()  , or by returning from   main()  ;
otherwise return   False  .
Availability  : Unix, not WASI, not Android, not iOS.
os.    WEXITSTATUS   (    status    )  ¶
Return the process exit status.
This function should be employed only if    WIFEXITED()    is true.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI, not Android, not iOS.
os.    WSTOPSIG   (    status    )  ¶
Return the signal which caused the process to stop.
This function should be employed only if    WIFSTOPPED()    is true.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI, not Android, not iOS.
os.    WTERMSIG   (    status    )  ¶
Return the number of the signal that caused the process to terminate.
This function should be employed only if    WIFSIGNALED()    is true.
Availability  : Unix, not WASI, not Android, not iOS.
Interface to the scheduler ¶
These functions control how a process is allocated CPU time by the operating
system. They are only available on some Unix platforms. For more detailed
information, consult your Unix manpages.
Added in version 3.3.
The following scheduling policies are exposed if they are supported by the
operating system.
os.    SCHED_OTHER   ¶
The default scheduling policy.
os.    SCHED_BATCH   ¶
Scheduling policy for CPU-intensive processes that tries to preserve
interactivity on the rest of the computer.
os.    SCHED_DEADLINE   ¶
Scheduling policy for tasks with deadline constraints.
Added in version 3.14.
os.    SCHED_IDLE   ¶
Scheduling policy for extremely low priority background tasks.
os.    SCHED_NORMAL   ¶
Alias for    SCHED_OTHER   .
Added in version 3.14.
os.    SCHED_SPORADIC   ¶
Scheduling policy for sporadic server programs.
os.    SCHED_FIFO   ¶
A First In First Out scheduling policy.
os.    SCHED_RR   ¶
A round-robin scheduling policy.
os.    SCHED_RESET_ON_FORK   ¶
This flag can be OR’ed with any other scheduling policy. When a process with
this flag set forks, its child’s scheduling policy and priority are reset to
the default.
class        os.    sched_param   (    sched_priority    )  ¶
This class represents tunable scheduling parameters used in
sched_setparam()   ,    sched_setscheduler()   , and
sched_getparam()   . It is immutable.
At the moment, there is only one possible parameter:
sched_priority   ¶
The scheduling priority for a scheduling policy.
os.    sched_get_priority_min   (    policy    )  ¶
Get the minimum priority value for  policy .  policy  is one of the
scheduling policy constants above.
os.    sched_get_priority_max   (    policy    )  ¶
Get the maximum priority value for  policy .  policy  is one of the
scheduling policy constants above.
os.    sched_setscheduler   (    pid   ,    policy   ,    param   ,     /     )  ¶
Set the scheduling policy for the process with PID  pid . A  pid  of 0 means
the calling process.  policy  is one of the scheduling policy constants
above.  param  is a    sched_param    instance.
os.    sched_getscheduler   (    pid   ,     /     )  ¶
Return the scheduling policy for the process with PID  pid . A  pid  of 0
means the calling process. The result is one of the scheduling policy
constants above.
os.    sched_setparam   (    pid   ,    param   ,     /     )  ¶
Set the scheduling parameters for the process with PID  pid . A  pid  of 0 means
the calling process.  param  is a    sched_param    instance.
os.    sched_getparam   (    pid   ,     /     )  ¶
Return the scheduling parameters as a    sched_param    instance for the
process with PID  pid . A  pid  of 0 means the calling process.
os.    sched_rr_get_interval   (    pid   ,     /     )  ¶
Return the round-robin quantum in seconds for the process with PID  pid . A
pid  of 0 means the calling process.
os.    sched_yield   (  )  ¶
Voluntarily relinquish the CPU. See   sched_yield(2)   for details.
os.    sched_setaffinity   (    pid   ,    mask   ,     /     )  ¶
Restrict the process with PID  pid  (or the current process if zero) to a
set of CPUs.   mask  is an iterable of integers representing the set of
CPUs to which the process should be restricted.
os.    sched_getaffinity   (    pid   ,     /     )  ¶
Return the set of CPUs the process with PID  pid  is restricted to.
If  pid  is zero, return the set of CPUs the calling thread of the current
process is restricted to.
See also the    process_cpu_count()    function.
Miscellaneous System Information ¶
os.    confstr   (    name   ,     /     )  ¶
Return string-valued system configuration values.  name  specifies the
configuration value to retrieve; it may be a string which is the name of a
defined system value; these names are specified in a number of standards (POSIX,
Unix 95, Unix 98, and others).  Some platforms define additional names as well.
The names known to the host operating system are given as the keys of the
confstr_names   dictionary.  For configuration variables not included in that
mapping, passing an integer for  name  is also accepted.
If the configuration value specified by  name  isn’t defined,   None   is
returned.
If  name  is a string and is not known,    ValueError    is raised.  If a
specific value for  name  is not supported by the host system, even if it is
included in   confstr_names  , an    OSError    is raised with
errno.EINVAL    for the error number.
Availability  : Unix.
os.    confstr_names   ¶
Dictionary mapping names accepted by    confstr()    to the integer values
defined for those names by the host operating system. This can be used to
determine the set of names known to the system.
Availability  : Unix.
os.    cpu_count   (  )  ¶
Return the number of logical CPUs in the  system . Returns   None   if
undetermined.
The    process_cpu_count()    function can be used to get the number of
logical CPUs usable by the calling thread of the  current process .
Added in version 3.4.
Changed in version 3.13:  If    -X   cpu_count    is given or      PYTHON_CPU_COUNT    is set,
cpu_count()   returns the override value  n .
os.    getloadavg   (  )  ¶
Return the number of processes in the system run queue averaged over the last
1, 5, and 15 minutes or raises    OSError    if the load average was
unobtainable.
Availability  : Unix.
os.    process_cpu_count   (  )  ¶
Get the number of logical CPUs usable by the calling thread of the  current
process . Returns   None   if undetermined. It can be less than
cpu_count()    depending on the CPU affinity.
The    cpu_count()    function can be used to get the number of logical CPUs
in the  system .
If    -X   cpu_count    is given or      PYTHON_CPU_COUNT    is set,
process_cpu_count()   returns the override value  n .
See also the    sched_getaffinity()    function.
Added in version 3.13.
os.    sysconf   (    name   ,     /     )  ¶
Return integer-valued system configuration values. If the configuration value
specified by  name  isn’t defined,   -1   is returned.  The comments regarding
the  name  parameter for    confstr()    apply here as well; the dictionary that
provides information on the known names is given by   sysconf_names  .
Availability  : Unix.
os.    sysconf_names   ¶
Dictionary mapping names accepted by    sysconf()    to the integer values
defined for those names by the host operating system. This can be used to
determine the set of names known to the system.
Availability  : Unix.
Changed in version 3.11:  Add   'SC_MINSIGSTKSZ'   name.
The following data values are used to support path manipulation operations.  These
are defined for all platforms.
Higher-level operations on pathnames are defined in the    os.path    module.
os.    curdir   ¶
The constant string used by the operating system to refer to the current
directory. This is   '.'   for Windows and POSIX. Also available via
os.path   .
os.    pardir   ¶
The constant string used by the operating system to refer to the parent
directory. This is   '..'   for Windows and POSIX. Also available via
os.path   .
os.    sep   ¶
The character used by the operating system to separate pathname components.
This is   '/'   for POSIX and   '\\'   for Windows.  Note that knowing this
is not sufficient to be able to parse or concatenate pathnames — use
os.path.split()    and    os.path.join()    — but it is occasionally
useful. Also available via    os.path   .
os.    altsep   ¶
An alternative character used by the operating system to separate pathname
components, or   None   if only one separator character exists.  This is set to
'/'   on Windows systems where   sep   is a backslash. Also available via
os.path   .
os.    extsep   ¶
The character which separates the base filename from the extension; for example,
the   '.'   in   os.py  . Also available via    os.path   .
os.    pathsep   ¶
The character conventionally used by the operating system to separate search
path components (as in     PATH  ), such as   ':'   for POSIX or   ';'   for
Windows. Also available via    os.path   .
os.    defpath   ¶
The default search path used by    exec*p*    and
spawn*p*    if the environment doesn’t have a   'PATH'
key. Also available via    os.path   .
os.    linesep   ¶
The string used to separate (or, rather, terminate) lines on the current
platform.  This may be a single character, such as   '\n'   for POSIX, or
multiple characters, for example,   '\r\n'   for Windows. Do not use
os.linesep  as a line terminator when writing files opened in text mode (the
default); use a single   '\n'   instead, on all platforms.
os.    devnull   ¶
The file path of the null device. For example:   '/dev/null'   for
POSIX,   'nul'   for Windows.  Also available via    os.path   .
os.    RTLD_LAZY   ¶
os.    RTLD_NOW   ¶
os.    RTLD_GLOBAL   ¶
os.    RTLD_LOCAL   ¶
os.    RTLD_NODELETE   ¶
os.    RTLD_NOLOAD   ¶
os.    RTLD_DEEPBIND   ¶
Flags for use with the    setdlopenflags()    and
getdlopenflags()    functions.  See the Unix manual page
dlopen(3)   for what the different flags mean.
Added in version 3.3.
Random numbers ¶
os.    getrandom   (    size   ,    flags    =    0    )  ¶
Get up to  size  random bytes. The function can return less bytes than
requested.
These bytes can be used to seed user-space random number generators or for
cryptographic purposes.
getrandom()   relies on entropy gathered from device drivers and other
sources of environmental noise. Unnecessarily reading large quantities of
data will have a negative impact on  other users  of the   /dev/random   and
/dev/urandom   devices.
The flags argument is a bit mask that can contain zero or more of the
following values ORed together:    os.GRND_RANDOM    and
GRND_NONBLOCK   .
See also the  Linux getrandom() manual page .
Availability  : Linux  = 3.17.
Added in version 3.6.
os.    urandom   (    size   ,     /     )  ¶
Return a bytestring of  size  random bytes suitable for cryptographic use.
This function returns random bytes from an OS-specific randomness source.  The
returned data should be unpredictable enough for cryptographic applications,
though its exact quality depends on the OS implementation.
On Linux, if the   getrandom()   syscall is available, it is used in
blocking mode: block until the system urandom entropy pool is initialized
(128 bits of entropy are collected by the kernel). See the     PEP 524   for
the rationale. On Linux, the    getrandom()    function can be used to get
random bytes in non-blocking mode (using the    GRND_NONBLOCK    flag) or
to poll until the system urandom entropy pool is initialized.
On a Unix-like system, random bytes are read from the   /dev/urandom
device. If the   /dev/urandom   device is not available or not readable, the
NotImplementedError    exception is raised.
On Windows, it will use   BCryptGenRandom()  .
See also
The    secrets    module provides higher level functions. For an
easy-to-use interface to the random number generator provided by your
platform, please see    random.SystemRandom   .
Changed in version 3.5:  On Linux 3.17 and newer, the   getrandom()   syscall is now used
when available.  On OpenBSD 5.6 and newer, the C   getentropy()
function is now used. These functions avoid the usage of an internal file
descriptor.
Changed in version 3.5.2:  On Linux, if the   getrandom()   syscall blocks (the urandom entropy pool
is not initialized yet), fall back on reading   /dev/urandom  .
Changed in version 3.6:  On Linux,   getrandom()   is now used in blocking mode to increase the
security.
Changed in version 3.11:  On Windows,   BCryptGenRandom()   is used instead of   CryptGenRandom()
which is deprecated.
os.    GRND_NONBLOCK   ¶
By  default, when reading from   /dev/random  ,    getrandom()    blocks if
no random bytes are available, and when reading from   /dev/urandom  , it blocks
if the entropy pool has not yet been initialized.
If the   GRND_NONBLOCK   flag is set, then    getrandom()    does not
block in these cases, but instead immediately raises    BlockingIOError   .
Added in version 3.6.
os.    GRND_RANDOM   ¶
If  this  bit  is  set,  then  random bytes are drawn from the
/dev/random   pool instead of the   /dev/urandom   pool.
Added in version 3.6.
Table of Contents
os   — Miscellaneous operating system interfaces
File Names, Command Line Arguments, and Environment Variables
Python UTF-8 Mode
Process Parameters
File Object Creation
File Descriptor Operations
Querying the size of a terminal
Inheritance of File Descriptors
Files and Directories
Timer File Descriptors
Linux extended attributes
Process Management
Interface to the scheduler
Miscellaneous System Information
Random numbers
Previous topic
Generic Operating System Services
Next topic
io   — Core tools for working with streams
This page
Report a bug
Improve this page
Show source
Navigation
index
modules  |
next  |
previous  |
Python
3.14.5 Documentation
The Python Standard Library
Generic Operating System Services
os   — Miscellaneous operating system interfaces
Theme
Auto
Light
Dark
Copyright  2001 Python Software Foundation.
This page is licensed under the Python Software Foundation License Version 2.
Examples, recipes, and other code in the documentation are additionally licensed under the Zero Clause BSD License.
See  History and License  for more information.
The Python Software Foundation is a non-profit corporation.
Please donate.
Last updated on May 26, 2026 (08:15 UTC).
Found a bug ?
Created using  Sphinx  8.2.3.